---
title: Kong Gateway 3.5.x breaking changes
content_type: reference
book: breaking-changes
chapter: 7
---

Before upgrading, review any configuration or breaking changes in this version and prior versions that
affect your current installation.

You may need to adopt different upgrade paths depending on your deployment methods, set of features in use,
custom plugins, for example.

## Dev Portal and Vitals

As of this release, the product component known as Kong Enterprise Portal is no longer included in the Kong Gateway Enterprise (previously known as Kong Enterprise) software package. Existing customers who have purchased Kong Enterprise Portal can continue to use it and be supported via a dedicated mechanism. 
  
If you have purchased Kong Enterprise Portal in the past and would like to continue to use it with this release or a future release of Kong Gateway Enterprise, contact [Kong Support](https://support.konghq.com/support/s/) for more information.

In addition, the product component known as Vitals is deprecated and is no longer included in Kong Gateway Enterprise.
Kong Konnect users can take advantage of our [API Analytics](/konnect/analytics/) offering, which provides a superset of Vitals functionality. 

Vitals continues to be supported for existing customers until August 2026 via the Kong Enterprise 3.4 LTS release.

## Plugin Changes

Kong Gateway now requires an Enterprise license to use dynamic plugin ordering.

### Session Plugin 

Kong Gateway 3.5.x introduced the new configuration field `read_body_for_logout` with a default value of `false`. This change alters the behavior of `logout_post_arg` in such a way that it is no longer considered, unless `read_body_for_logout` is explicitly set to `true`. This adjustment prevents the Session plugin from automatically reading request bodies for logout detection, particularly on POST requests.

## Configuration changes

The default value of the [`dns_no_sync`](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/reference/configuration/#dns_no_sync) option has been changed to `on`.
