---
title: Kong Gateway 3.6.x breaking changes
content_type: reference
book: breaking-changes
chapter: 8
---

Before upgrading, review any configuration or breaking changes in this version and prior versions that
affect your current installation.

You may need to adopt different upgrade paths depending on your deployment methods, set of features in use,
or custom plugins, for example.

Review the [changelog](/gateway/changelog/#3600) for all the changes in this release.

## Breaking changes and deprecations

### General

If you are using `ngx.var.http_*` in custom code to access HTTP headers, the behavior of that variable changed slightly when the same header is used multiple times in a single request. Previously, it would return the first value only; now it returns all the values, separated by commas. {{site.base_gateway}}'s PDK header getters and setters work as before.

### Wasm

To avoid ambiguity with other Wasm-related `nginx.conf` directives, the prefix for Wasm `shm_kv` nginx.conf directives was changed from `nginx_wasm_shm_` to `nginx_wasm_shm_kv_`.
 [#11919](https://github.com/Kong/kong/issues/11919)

### Admin API

The listing endpoints for consumer groups (`/consumer_groups`) and consumers (`/consumers`) now respond
with paginated results. The JSON key for the list has been changed to `data` instead of `consumer_groups`
or `consumers`.

### Configuration changes

The default value of the [`dns_no_sync`](/gateway/{{page.release}}/reference/configuration/#dns_no_sync) option has been changed to `off`.

### TLS changes

#### 3.6.0.0

The recent OpenResty bump includes TLS 1.3 and deprecates TLS 1.1. 
If you still need to support TLS 1.1, set the [`ssl_cipher_suite`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#ssl_cipher_suite) setting to `old`.

In OpenSSL 3.2, the default SSL/TLS security level has been changed from 1 to 2.
This means the security level is set to 112 bits of security. 
As a result, the following are prohibited:
* RSA, DSA, and DH keys shorter than 2048 bits
* ECC keys shorter than 224 bits
* Any cipher suite using RC4
* SSL version 3
Additionally, compression is disabled.

#### 3.6.1.0

TLSv1.1 and lower is now disabled by default in OpenSSL 3.x.

### Kong Manager Enterprise

As of {{site.base_gateway}} 3.6, Kong Manager uses the session management mechanism in the OpenID Connect plugin.
`admin_gui_session_conf` is no longer required when authenticating with OIDC. Instead, session-related
configuration parameters are set in `admin_gui_auth_conf` (like `session_secret`).

See the [migration guide](/gateway/{{page.release}}/kong-manager/auth/oidc/migrate/) for more information.

### Plugin changes

* [**ACME**](/hub/kong-inc/acme/) (`acme`), [**Rate Limiting**](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting/) (`rate-limiting`), and [**Response Rate Limiting**](/hub/kong-inc/response-ratelimiting/) (`response-ratelimiting`)
  * Standardized Redis configuration across plugins. The Redis configuration now follows a common schema that is shared across other plugins.
  [#12300](https://github.com/Kong/kong/issues/12300)  [#12301](https://github.com/Kong/kong/issues/12301)

* [**Azure Functions**](/hub/kong-inc/azure-functions/) (`azure-functions`): 
  * The Azure Functions plugin now eliminates the upstream/request URI and only uses the [`routeprefix`](/hub/kong-inc/azure-functions/configuration/#config-routeprefix) 
configuration field to construct the request path when requesting the Azure API.

* [**OAS Validation**](/hub/kong-inc/oas-validation/) (`oas-validation`) 
  * The plugin now bypasses schema validation when the content type is not `application/json`.

* [**Proxy Cache Advanced**](/hub/kong-inc/proxy-cache-advanced/) (`proxy-cache-advanced`)
  * Removed the undesired `proxy-cache-advanced/migrations/001_035_to_050.lua` file, which blocked migration from OSS to Enterprise. 
    This is a breaking change only if you are upgrading from a {{site.base_gateway}} version between `0.3.5` and `0.5.0`.

* [**SAML**](/hub/kong-inc/saml) (`saml`)
  * Adjusted the priority of the SAML plugin to 1010 to correct the integration between the SAML plugin and other consumer-based plugins.
 
## Known issues

The following is a list of known issues that may be fixed in a future release.

### Operating system requirements

{{site.base_gateway}} 3.6 requires a higher limit on the number of file descriptions to 
function properly. It will not start properly with a limit set to 1024 or lower. We 
recommend using `ulimit` on your operating system to set it to at least 4096 using 
`ulimit -n 4096`.

**Issue fixed in 3.6.1.0**:
Although a higher limit on file descriptors (`uname -n`) is recommended in general for 
{{site.base_gateway}}, you can upgrade to 3.6.1.0 to start with a default of 1024 again.

### HTTP/2 requires Content-Length for plugins that read request body

Kong 3.6.x has introduced a regression for plugins that read the body of incoming requests. 
Clients must specify a `Content-Length` header that represents the length of the request body. 
Not including this header, or relying on `Transfer-Encoding: chunked` will result in an HTTP response with the error code 500.

Currently known affected plugins: 
* [jq](/hub/kong-inc/jq/)
* [Request Size Limiting](/hub/kong-inc/request-size-limiting/)
* [Request Validator](/hub/kong-inc/request-validator/)
* [AI Request Transformer](/hub/kong-inc/ai-request-transformer/)
* [Request Transformer](/hub/kong-inc/request-transformer/)
* [Request Transformer Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/request-transformer-advanced/)

Kong is currently investigating potential remediations.
