app/plugins/bot-detection.md, before:

---
id: page-plugin
title: Plugins - Bot Detection
header_title: Bot Detection
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/plugins/bot-detection.png
breadcrumbs:
  Plugins: /plugins
nav:
  - label: Getting Started
    items:
      - label: Configuration
      - label: Default rules
---

Protects your API from most common bots and has the capability of whitelisting and blacklisting custom clients.

----

## Configuration

Configuring the plugin is straightforward, you can add it on top of an [API][api-object] by executing the following request on your Kong server:

```bash
$ curl -X POST http://kong:8001/apis/{api}/plugins \
    --data "name=bot-detection"
```

`api`: The `id` or `name` of the API that this plugin configuration will target

You can also apply it for every API using the `http://kong:8001/plugins/` endpoint. Read the [Plugin Reference](/docs/latest/admin-api/#add-plugin) for more information.

form parameter                    | default   | description
---                               |---        | ---
`name`                            |           | The name of the plugin to use, in this case: `bot-detection`
`config.whitelist`<br>*optional*  |           | A comma separated array of regular expressions that should be whitelisted. The regular expressions will be checked against the `User-Agent` header.
`config.blacklist`<br>*optional*  |           | A comma separated array of regular expressions that should be blacklisted. The regular expressions will be checked against the `User-Agent` header.

----

## Default rules

The plugin already includes a basic list of rules that will be checked on every request. You can find this list on GitHub at [https://github.com/Mashape/kong/blob/master/kong/plugins/bot-detection/rules.lua](https://github.com/Mashape/kong/blob/master/kong/plugins/bot-detection/rules.lua).

[api-object]: /docs/latest/admin-api/#api-object
[configuration]: /docs/latest/configuration
[consumer-object]: /docs/latest/admin-api/#consumer-object
[faq-authentication]: /about/faq/#how-can-i-add-an-authentication-layer-on-a-microservice/api?

Commit message:

docs(plugins) convert configuration to new yaml-based format
* acl
* aws-lambda
* basic-authentication
* bot-detection
* correlation-id
* cors
* datadog
* dynamic-ssl
* file-log
* galileo
* hmac-authentication
* http-log
* ip-restriction
* jwt
* key-authentication
* ldap-authentication
* loggly
* oauth2-authentication
* openwhisk
* rate-limiting

app/plugins/bot-detection.md, after:

---
id: page-plugin
title: Plugins - Bot Detection
header_title: Bot Detection
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/plugins/bot-detection.png
breadcrumbs:
  Plugins: /plugins
nav:
  - label: Getting Started
    items:
      - label: Configuration
      - label: Default rules
description: |
  Protects your API from most common bots and has the capability of whitelisting and blacklisting custom clients.

params:
  name: bot-detection
  api_id: true
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: false
  config:
    - name: whitelist
      required: false
      default:
      description: |
        A comma separated array of regular expressions that should be whitelisted. The regular expressions will be checked against the `User-Agent` header.
    - name: blacklist
      required: false
      default:
      description: |
        A comma separated array of regular expressions that should be blacklisted. The regular expressions will be checked against the `User-Agent` header.

---

## Default rules

The plugin already includes a basic list of rules that will be checked on every request. You can find this list on GitHub at [https://github.com/Mashape/kong/blob/master/kong/plugins/bot-detection/rules.lua](https://github.com/Mashape/kong/blob/master/kong/plugins/bot-detection/rules.lua).

[api-object]: /docs/latest/admin-api/#api-object
[configuration]: /docs/latest/configuration
[consumer-object]: /docs/latest/admin-api/#consumer-object
[faq-authentication]: /about/faq/#how-can-i-add-an-authentication-layer-on-a-microservice/api?
