app/plugins/dynamic-ssl.md, before:

---
id: page-plugin
title: Plugins - Dynamic SSL
header_title: Dynamic SSL
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/plugins/dynamic-ssl.png
breadcrumbs:
  Plugins: /plugins
nav:
  - label: Getting Started
    items:
      - label: Configuration
  - label: Usage
    items:
      - label: Creating an SSL certificate
      - label: Propagation
---

Dynamically binds a specific SSL certificate to the `request_host` value of a service. In case you want to setup a global SSL certificate for **every API**, take a look at the [Kong SSL configuration options][configuration].

<br />

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> As of Kong 0.10.0, this plugin has been removed and the
  core is now directly responsible for dynamically serving SSL certificates.
  You can read about how to serve an API over SSL in the 
  <a href="/docs/latest/proxy#configuring-ssl-for-an-api">Proxy</a> and the
  <a href="/docs/latest/admin-api">Admin API</a> references.
</div>

----

## Configuration

Configuring the plugin is as simple as a single API call, you can configure and enable it for your [API][api-object] by executing the following request on your Kong server:

```bash
$ curl -X POST http://kong:8001/apis/{api}/plugins \
    --form "name=ssl" \
    --form "config.cert=@/path/to/cert.pem" \
    --form "config.key=@/path/to/cert.key" \
    --form "config.only_https=true"
```

`api`: The `id` or `name` of the API that this plugin configuration will target

You can also apply it for every API using the `http://kong:8001/plugins/` endpoint. Read the [Plugin Reference](/docs/latest/admin-api/#add-plugin) for more information.

form parameter                     | default | description
---:                               | ---     | ---
`name`                             |         | Name of the plugin to use, in this case: `ssl`
`config.cert`                      |         | Upload the data of the certificate to use. Note that is the the actual data of the key (not the path), so it should be sent in `multipart/form-data` upload request.
`config.key`                       |         | Upload the data of the certificate key to use. Note that is the the actual data of the key (not the path), so it should be sent in `multipart/form-data` upload request.
`config.only_https`<br>*optional*  | `false` | Specify if the service should only be available through an `https` protocol.
`config.accept_http_if_already_terminated`<br>*optional* | `false` | If `config.only_https` is `true`, accepts HTTPs requests that have already been terminated by a proxy or load balancer and the `x-forwarded-proto: https` header has been added to the request. Only enable this option if the Kong server cannot be publicly accessed and the only entry-point is such proxy or load balancer.

----

## Creating an SSL certificate

When creating an SSL certificate to use with this plugin, make sure you create one that is compatible with nginx. There are different ways of getting an SSL certificate, below you can find some easy steps to create a self-signed certificate to use with this plugin:

```bash
# Let's create the private server key
openssl genrsa -des3 -out server.key 2048

# Now we create a certificate signing request
openssl req -new -key server.key -out server.csr -sha256

# Remove the passphrase
cp server.key server.key.org
openssl rsa -in server.key.org -out server.key

# Signing the SSL certificate
openssl x509 -req -in server.csr -signkey server.key -out server.crt -sha256
```

If you followed the steps above the certificate will be stored in a file named `server.crt`, while the key is at `server.key`.

----

## Propagation

When adding this plugin, the SSL certificate and its key will be uploaded and stored into the datastore, and they doesn't need to physically exist on the Kong servers. 

For example, if you have two Kong servers called "Server_1" and "Server_2", this means that you can upload a certificate, let's say, on "Server_1" and it will be immediately available also on "Server_2" (and on any other server you decide to add to the cluster, as long as they point to the same datastore).

[api-object]: /docs/latest/admin-api/#api-object
[configuration]: /docs/latest/configuration#ssl_cert_path

Commit message:

docs(dynamic-ssl-plugin) updated for routes and services

app/plugins/dynamic-ssl.md, after:

---
id: page-plugin
title: Plugins - Dynamic SSL
header_title: Dynamic SSL
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/plugins/dynamic-ssl.png
breadcrumbs:
  Plugins: /plugins
nav:
  - label: Getting Started
    items:
      - label: Configuration
  - label: Usage
    items:
      - label: Creating an SSL certificate
      - label: Propagation
---

Dynamically binds a specific SSL certificate to the `request_host` value of a service. In case you want to setup a global SSL certificate for **every service**, take a look at the [Kong SSL configuration options][configuration].

<br />

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> As of Kong 0.10.0, this plugin has been removed and the
  core is now directly responsible for dynamically serving SSL certificates.
  You can read about how to serve an API over SSL in the 
  <a href="/docs/latest/proxy#configuring-ssl-for-an-api">Proxy</a> and the
  <a href="/docs/latest/admin-api">Admin API</a> references.
</div>

----

## Configuration

Configuring the plugin is straightforward, you can add it on top of a [Service][service-object], a [Route][route-object], or an [API][api-object] by executing the following request on your Kong server:

```bash
$ curl -X POST http://kong:8001/plugins \
    --form "name=ssl" \
    --data "service_id={service}"  \
    --data "route_id={route}"  \
    --data "api_id={api}"  \
    --form "config.cert=@/path/to/cert.pem" \
    --form "config.key=@/path/to/cert.key" \
    --form "config.only_https=true"
```

`service`: The `id` of the Service that this plugin configuration will target
`route`: The `id` of the Route that this plugin configuration will target
`api`: The `id` of the API that this plugin configuration will target

The term `target` is used to refer any of the possible targets for the plugin.

You can also apply it globally using the `http://kong:8001/plugins/` by not specifying the target. Read the [Plugin Reference](/docs/latest/admin-api/#add-plugin) for more information.

form parameter                     | default | description
---:                               | ---     | ---
`name`                             |         | Name of the plugin to use, in this case: `ssl`
`config.cert`                      |         | Upload the data of the certificate to use. Note that is the the actual data of the key (not the path), so it should be sent in `multipart/form-data` upload request.
`config.key`                       |         | Upload the data of the certificate key to use. Note that is the the actual data of the key (not the path), so it should be sent in `multipart/form-data` upload request.
`config.only_https`<br>*optional*  | `false` | Specify if the service should only be available through an `https` protocol.
`config.accept_http_if_already_terminated`<br>*optional* | `false` | If `config.only_https` is `true`, accepts HTTPs requests that have already been terminated by a proxy or load balancer and the `x-forwarded-proto: https` header has been added to the request. Only enable this option if the Kong server cannot be publicly accessed and the only entry-point is such proxy or load balancer.

----

## Creating an SSL certificate

When creating an SSL certificate to use with this plugin, make sure you create one that is compatible with nginx. There are different ways of getting an SSL certificate, below you can find some easy steps to create a self-signed certificate to use with this plugin:

```bash
# Let's create the private server key
openssl genrsa -des3 -out server.key 2048

# Now we create a certificate signing request
openssl req -new -key server.key -out server.csr -sha256

# Remove the passphrase
cp server.key server.key.org
openssl rsa -in server.key.org -out server.key

# Signing the SSL certificate
openssl x509 -req -in server.csr -signkey server.key -out server.crt -sha256
```

If you followed the steps above the certificate will be stored in a file named `server.crt`, while the key is at `server.key`.

----

## Propagation

When adding this plugin, the SSL certificate and its key will be uploaded and stored into the datastore, and they doesn't need to physically exist on the Kong servers. 

For example, if you have two Kong servers called "Server_1" and "Server_2", this means that you can upload a certificate, let's say, on "Server_1" and it will be immediately available also on "Server_2" (and on any other server you decide to add to the cluster, as long as they point to the same datastore).

[service-object]: /docs/latest/admin-api/#service-object
[route-object]: /docs/latest/admin-api/#route-object
[api-object]: /docs/latest/admin-api/#api-object
[configuration]: /docs/latest/configuration#ssl_cert_path
