app/plugins/file-log.md, before:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/file-log

id: page-plugin
title: Plugins - File Log
header_title: File Log
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/plugins/file-log.png
breadcrumbs:
  Plugins: /plugins
nav:
  - label: Usage
    items:
      - label: Log Format
      - label: Kong Process Errors
description: |
  Append request and response data to a log file on disk.

  It is not recommended to use this plugin in production, it would be better to
  use another logging plugin, for example `syslog`, in those cases. Due to system
  limitations this plugin uses blocking file i/o, which will hurt performance,
  and hence is an anti-pattern for Kong installations.
params:
  name: file-log
  api_id: true
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  config:
    - name: path
      required: true
      default:
      value_in_examples: "/tmp/file.log"
      description: |
        The file path of the output log file. The plugin will create the file if it doesn't exist yet. Make sure Kong has write permissions to this file.
    - name: reopen
      required: false
      default: "`false`"
      description: |
        Introduced in Kong `0.10.2`. Determines whether the log file is closed and reopened on every request. If the file is not reopened, and has been removed/rotated, the plugin will keep writing to the stale file descriptor, and hence lose information.

---

## Log Format

Every request will be logged separately in a JSON object separated by a new line `\n`, with the following format:

```json
{
    "request": {
        "method": "GET",
        "uri": "/get",
        "url": "http://httpbin.org:8000/get",
        "size": "75",
        "querystring": {},
        "headers": {
            "accept": "*/*",
            "host": "httpbin.org",
            "user-agent": "curl/7.37.1"
        }
    },
    "upstream_uri": "/",
    "response": {
        "status": 200,
        "size": "434",
        "headers": {
            "Content-Length": "197",
            "via": "kong/0.3.0",
            "Connection": "close",
            "access-control-allow-credentials": "true",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "server": "nginx",
            "access-control-allow-origin": "*"
        }
    },
    "tries": [
        {
            "state": "next",
            "code": 502,
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        },
        {
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        }
    ],
    "authenticated_entity": {
        "consumer_id": "80f74eef-31b8-45d5-c525-ae532297ea8e",
        "id": "eaa330c0-4cff-47f5-c79e-b2e4f355207e"
    },
    "route": {
        "created_at": 1521555129,
        "hosts": null,
        "id": "75818c5f-202d-4b82-a553-6a46e7c9a19e",
        "methods": null,
        "paths": [
            "/example-path"
        ],
        "preserve_host": false,
        "protocols": [
            "http",
            "https"
        ],
        "regex_priority": 0,
        "service": {
            "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804"
        },
        "strip_path": true,
        "updated_at": 1521555129
    },
    "service": {
        "connect_timeout": 60000,
        "created_at": 1521554518,
        "host": "example.com",
        "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804",
        "name": "myservice",
        "path": "/",
        "port": 80,
        "protocol": "http",
        "read_timeout": 60000,
        "retries": 5,
        "updated_at": 1521554518,
        "write_timeout": 60000
    },
    "consumer": {
        "username": "demo",
        "created_at": 1491847011000,
        "id": "35b03bfc-7a5b-4a23-a594-aa350c585fa8"
    },
    "latencies": {
        "proxy": 1430,
        "kong": 9,
        "request": 1921
    },
    "client_ip": "127.0.0.1",
    "started_at": 1433209822425
}
```

A few considerations on the above JSON object:

* `request` contains properties about the request sent by the client
* `response` contains properties about the response sent to the client
* `tries` contains the list of (re)tries (successes and failures) made by the load balancer for this request
* `route` contains Kong properties about the specific Route requested
* `service` contains Kong properties about the Service associated with the requested Route
* `authenticated_entity` contains Kong properties about the authenticated credential (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `consumer` contains the authenticated Consumer (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `latencies` contains some data about the latencies involved:
  * `proxy` is the time it took for the final service to process the request
  * `kong` is the internal Kong latency that it took to run all the plugins
  * `request` is the time elapsed between the first bytes were read from the client and after the last bytes were sent to the client. Useful for detecting slow clients.
* `client_ip` contains the original client IP address
* `started_at` contains the UTC timestamp of when the request has started to be processed.

----

## Kong Process Errors

This logging plugin will only log HTTP request and response data. If you are looking for the Kong process error file (which is the nginx error file), then you can find it at the following path: {[prefix](/{{site.data.kong_latest.release}}/configuration/#prefix)}/logs/error.log

Commit message:

docs(hub) add warning about dead code (#915)
* docs(hub) add warning about dead code

This is to encourage contributors to update the correct file(s).

* docs(hub) more dead code warnings

app/plugins/file-log.md, after:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/file-log


# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
#
# FIXME This file is dead code - it is no longer being rendered or utilized,
# and updates to this file will have no effect.
#
# The remaining contents of this file (below) will be deleted soon.
#
# Updates to the content below should instead be made to the file(s) in /app/_hub/
#
# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


id: page-plugin
title: Plugins - File Log
header_title: File Log
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/plugins/file-log.png
breadcrumbs:
  Plugins: /plugins
nav:
  - label: Usage
    items:
      - label: Log Format
      - label: Kong Process Errors
description: |
  Append request and response data to a log file on disk.

  It is not recommended to use this plugin in production, it would be better to
  use another logging plugin, for example `syslog`, in those cases. Due to system
  limitations this plugin uses blocking file i/o, which will hurt performance,
  and hence is an anti-pattern for Kong installations.
params:
  name: file-log
  api_id: true
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  config:
    - name: path
      required: true
      default:
      value_in_examples: "/tmp/file.log"
      description: |
        The file path of the output log file. The plugin will create the file if it doesn't exist yet. Make sure Kong has write permissions to this file.
    - name: reopen
      required: false
      default: "`false`"
      description: |
        Introduced in Kong `0.10.2`. Determines whether the log file is closed and reopened on every request. If the file is not reopened, and has been removed/rotated, the plugin will keep writing to the stale file descriptor, and hence lose information.

---

## Log Format

Every request will be logged separately in a JSON object separated by a new line `\n`, with the following format:

```json
{
    "request": {
        "method": "GET",
        "uri": "/get",
        "url": "http://httpbin.org:8000/get",
        "size": "75",
        "querystring": {},
        "headers": {
            "accept": "*/*",
            "host": "httpbin.org",
            "user-agent": "curl/7.37.1"
        }
    },
    "upstream_uri": "/",
    "response": {
        "status": 200,
        "size": "434",
        "headers": {
            "Content-Length": "197",
            "via": "kong/0.3.0",
            "Connection": "close",
            "access-control-allow-credentials": "true",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "server": "nginx",
            "access-control-allow-origin": "*"
        }
    },
    "tries": [
        {
            "state": "next",
            "code": 502,
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        },
        {
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        }
    ],
    "authenticated_entity": {
        "consumer_id": "80f74eef-31b8-45d5-c525-ae532297ea8e",
        "id": "eaa330c0-4cff-47f5-c79e-b2e4f355207e"
    },
    "route": {
        "created_at": 1521555129,
        "hosts": null,
        "id": "75818c5f-202d-4b82-a553-6a46e7c9a19e",
        "methods": null,
        "paths": [
            "/example-path"
        ],
        "preserve_host": false,
        "protocols": [
            "http",
            "https"
        ],
        "regex_priority": 0,
        "service": {
            "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804"
        },
        "strip_path": true,
        "updated_at": 1521555129
    },
    "service": {
        "connect_timeout": 60000,
        "created_at": 1521554518,
        "host": "example.com",
        "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804",
        "name": "myservice",
        "path": "/",
        "port": 80,
        "protocol": "http",
        "read_timeout": 60000,
        "retries": 5,
        "updated_at": 1521554518,
        "write_timeout": 60000
    },
    "consumer": {
        "username": "demo",
        "created_at": 1491847011000,
        "id": "35b03bfc-7a5b-4a23-a594-aa350c585fa8"
    },
    "latencies": {
        "proxy": 1430,
        "kong": 9,
        "request": 1921
    },
    "client_ip": "127.0.0.1",
    "started_at": 1433209822425
}
```

A few considerations on the above JSON object:

* `request` contains properties about the request sent by the client
* `response` contains properties about the response sent to the client
* `tries` contains the list of (re)tries (successes and failures) made by the load balancer for this request
* `route` contains Kong properties about the specific Route requested
* `service` contains Kong properties about the Service associated with the requested Route
* `authenticated_entity` contains Kong properties about the authenticated credential (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `consumer` contains the authenticated Consumer (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `latencies` contains some data about the latencies involved:
  * `proxy` is the time it took for the final service to process the request
  * `kong` is the internal Kong latency that it took to run all the plugins
  * `request` is the time elapsed between the first bytes were read from the client and after the last bytes were sent to the client. Useful for detecting slow clients.
* `client_ip` contains the original client IP address
* `started_at` contains the UTC timestamp of when the request has started to be processed.

----

## Kong Process Errors

This logging plugin will only log HTTP request and response data. If you are looking for the Kong process error file (which is the nginx error file), then you can find it at the following path: {[prefix](/{{site.data.kong_latest.release}}/configuration/#prefix)}/logs/error.log
