---
id: page-plugin
title: Plugins - HMAC Authentication
header_title: HMAC Authentication
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/plugins/hmac-authentication.png
breadcrumbs:
  Plugins: /plugins
nav:
  - label: Getting Started
    items:
      - label: Configuration
  - label: Usage
    items:
      - label: Create a Consumer
      - label: Create a Credential
      - label: Signature Authentication Scheme
      - label: Signature Parameters
      - label: Signature String Construction
      - label: HMAC Example
      - label: Upstream Headers
---

Add HMAC Signature Authentication to your APIs to establish the identity of the consumer. The plugin will check for valid signature in the `Proxy-Authorization` and `Authorization` header (in this order). This plugin implementation follows the [draft-cavage-http-signatures-00](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-cavage-http-signatures-00) draft with slightly changed signature scheme.

----

## Configuration

Configuring the plugin is straightforward, you can add it on top of an [API][api-object] by executing the following request on your Kong server:

```bash
$ curl -X POST http://kong:8001/apis/{api}/plugins \
    --data "name=hmac-auth"
```

`api`: The `id` or `name` of the API that this plugin configuration will target

You can also apply it for every API using the `http://kong:8001/plugins/` endpoint. Read the [Plugin Reference](/docs/latest/admin-api/#add-plugin) for more information.

form parameter                          | default | description
---                                     | ---     | ---
`name`                                  |         | The name of the plugin to use, in this case: `hmac-auth`
`config.hide_credentials`<br>*optional* | `false` | An optional boolean value telling the plugin to hide the credential to the upstream API server. It will be removed by Kong before proxying the request
`config.clock_skew`<br>*optional*       | `300`   | Clock Skew in seconds to prevent replay attacks.
`config.anonymous`<br>*optional*           | `false` | An optional boolean value telling the plugin to keep processing the request even if the credentials are missing

----

## Usage

In order to use the plugin, you first need to create a consumer to associate one or more credentials to. The Consumer represents a developer using the final service/API.

### Create a Consumer

You need to associate a credential to an existing [Consumer][consumer-object] object, that represents a user consuming the API. To create a [Consumer][consumer-object] you can execute the following request:

```bash
curl -d "username=user123&custom_id=SOME_CUSTOM_ID" http://kong:8001/consumers/
```

parameter                       | description
---                             | ---
`username`<br>*semi-optional*   | The username of the consumer. Either this field or `custom_id` must be specified.
`custom_id`<br>*semi-optional*  | A custom identifier used to map the consumer to another database. Either this field or `username` must be specified.

A [Consumer][consumer-object] can have many credentials.

### Create a Credential

You can provision new username/password credentials by making the following HTTP request:

```bash
$ curl -X POST http://kong:8001/consumers/{consumer}/hmac-auth \
    --data "username=bob" \
    --data "secret=secret456"
```

`consumer`: The `id` or `username` property of the [Consumer][consumer-object] entity to associate the credentials to.

form parameter             | description
---                        | ---
`username`                 | The username to use in the HMAC Signature verification
`secret`<br>*optional*   | The secret to use in the HMAC Signature verification

### Signature Authentication Scheme

The client is expected to send an `Authorization` header with the following parameterization:

```
credentials := "hmac" params
params := keyId "," algorithm ", " headers ", " signature
keyId := "username" "=" plain-string
algorithm := "algorithm" "=" DQUOTE (hmac-sha1) DQUOTE
headers := "headers" "=" plain-string
signature := "signature" "=" plain-string
plain-string   = DQUOTE *( %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E ) DQUOTE
```

### Signature Parameters

parameter| description
--- | ---
username | The `username` of the credential
algorithm | Digital signature algorithm used to create signature, only `hmac-sha1` is supported
headers | List of HTTP header names, separated by a single space character, used to sign the request
signature | `Base64` encoded digital signature generated by the client

### Signature String Construction

In order to generate the string that is signed with a key, the client
MUST take the values of each HTTP header specified by `headers` in
the order they appear.

1. If the header name is not `request-line` then append the
  lowercased header name followed with an ASCII colon `:` and an
  ASCII space ` `.

2. If the header name is `request-line` then appened the HTTP
  request line, otherwise append the header value.

3. If value is not the last value then append an ASCII newline `\n`.
  The string MUST NOT include a trailing ASCII newline.

### Clock Skew

The HMAC Authentication plugin also implements a clock skew check [as described in the specification](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-cavage-http-signatures-00#section-3.4) to prevent replay attacks. By default, a minimum lag of 300s in either direction (past/future) is allowed. Any request with a higher or lower date value will be rejected. The length of the clock skew can be edited through the plugin's configuration by setting `clock_skew` property (`config.clock_skew` POST parameters).

The server and requesting client should be synchronized with NTP and a valid date (using GMT format) should be sent with either the `X-Date` or `Date` header.

### HMAC Example

For an HMAC signature with `date` and `content-md5` headers, the `Proxy-Authorization` or `Authorization` header and signature would be generated as:

```
Authorization: hmac username="bob", algorithm="hmac-sha1", headers="date content-md5", signature="Base64(HMAC-SHA1(signing string))"
```

The client would compose the signing string as:

```
date: Fri, 09 Oct 2015 00:00:00 GMT\ncontent-md5: lCMsW4/JJy9vc6HjbraPzw==
```

### Upstream Headers

When a client has been authenticated, the plugin will append some headers to the request before proxying it to the upstream API/Microservice, so that you can identify the consumer in your code:

* `X-Consumer-ID`, the ID of the Consumer on Kong
* `X-Consumer-Custom-ID`, the `custom_id` of the Consumer (if set)
* `X-Consumer-Username`, the `username` of the Consumer (if set)
* `X-Credential-Username`, the `username` of the Credential

You can use this information on your side to implement additional logic. You can use the `X-Consumer-ID` value to query the Kong Admin API and retrieve more information about the Consumer.

[api-object]: /docs/latest/admin-api/#api-object
[configuration]: /docs/latest/configuration
[consumer-object]: /docs/latest/admin-api/#consumer-object
[faq-authentication]: /about/faq/#how-can-i-add-an-authentication-layer-on-a-microservice/api?
