app/plugins/request-termination.md, before:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/request-termination

id: page-plugin
title: Plugins - Request Termination
header_title: Request Termination
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/plugins/request-termination.png
breadcrumbs:
  Plugins: /plugins
nav:
  - label: Usage
    items:
      - label: Example Use Cases

description: |
  This plugin terminates incoming requests with a specified status code and
  message. This allows to (temporarily) stop traffic on a Service or a Route
  (or the deprecated API entity), or even block a Consumer.

params:
  name: request-termination
  api_id: true
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  config:
    - name: status_code
      required: false
      default: "`503`"
      value_in_examples: 403
      description: The response code to send.
    - name: message
      required: false
      value_in_examples: "So long and thanks for all the fish!"
      description: The message to send, if using the default response generator.
    - name: body
      required: false
      description: The raw response body to send, this is mutually exclusive with the `config.message` field.
    - name: content_type
      required: false
      default: "`application/json; charset=utf-8`"
      description: Content type of the raw response configured with `config.body`.
  extra: |
    Once applied, every request (within the configured plugin scope of a Service,
    Route, Consumer, API, or global) will be immediately terminated by
    sending the configured response.

---

## Example Use Cases

- Temporarily disable a Service (e.g. it is under maintenance).
- Temporarily disable a Route (e.g. the rest of the Service is up and running, but a particular endpoint must be disabled).
- Temporarily disable a Consumer (e.g. excessive consumption).
- Block anonymous access with multiple auth plugins in a logical `OR` setup.

Commit message:

docs(hub) add warning about dead code (#915)
* docs(hub) add warning about dead code

This is to encourage contributors to update the correct file(s).

* docs(hub) more dead code warnings

app/plugins/request-termination.md, after:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/request-termination


# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
#
# FIXME This file is dead code - it is no longer being rendered or utilized,
# and updates to this file will have no effect.
#
# The remaining contents of this file (below) will be deleted soon.
#
# Updates to the content below should instead be made to the file(s) in /app/_hub/
#
# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


id: page-plugin
title: Plugins - Request Termination
header_title: Request Termination
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/plugins/request-termination.png
breadcrumbs:
  Plugins: /plugins
nav:
  - label: Usage
    items:
      - label: Example Use Cases

description: |
  This plugin terminates incoming requests with a specified status code and
  message. This allows to (temporarily) stop traffic on a Service or a Route
  (or the deprecated API entity), or even block a Consumer.

params:
  name: request-termination
  api_id: true
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  config:
    - name: status_code
      required: false
      default: "`503`"
      value_in_examples: 403
      description: The response code to send.
    - name: message
      required: false
      value_in_examples: "So long and thanks for all the fish!"
      description: The message to send, if using the default response generator.
    - name: body
      required: false
      description: The raw response body to send, this is mutually exclusive with the `config.message` field.
    - name: content_type
      required: false
      default: "`application/json; charset=utf-8`"
      description: Content type of the raw response configured with `config.body`.
  extra: |
    Once applied, every request (within the configured plugin scope of a Service,
    Route, Consumer, API, or global) will be immediately terminated by
    sending the configured response.

---

## Example Use Cases

- Temporarily disable a Service (e.g. it is under maintenance).
- Temporarily disable a Route (e.g. the rest of the Service is up and running, but a particular endpoint must be disabled).
- Temporarily disable a Consumer (e.g. excessive consumption).
- Block anonymous access with multiple auth plugins in a logical `OR` setup.
