app/plugins/syslog.md, before:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/syslog

id: page-plugin
title: Plugins - Syslog
header_title: Syslog
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/plugins/syslog.png
breadcrumbs:
  Plugins: /plugins
nav:
  - label: Usage
    items:
      - label: Log Format
      - label: Notes
      - label: Kong Process Errors
description: |
  Log request and response data to Syslog.

params:
  name: syslog
  api_id: true
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  config:
    - name: successful_severity
      required: false
      default: "`info`"
      description: An optional logging severity assigned to the all successful requests with response status code less then 400 .
    - name: client_errors_severity
      required: false
      default: "`info`"
      description: An optional logging severity assigned to the all failed requests with response status code 400 or higher but less than 500.
    - name: server_errors_severity
      required: false
      default: "`info`"
      description: An optional logging severity assigned to the all failed requests with response status code 500 or higher.
    - name: log_level
      required: false
      default: "`info`"
      description: An optional logging severity, any request with equal or higher severity will be logged to System log.  

---

## Log Format

Every request will be logged to System log in [SYSLOG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog) standard, with `message` component in the following format:

```json
{
    "request": {
        "method": "GET",
        "uri": "/get",
        "url": "http://httpbin.org:8000/get",
        "size": "75",
        "querystring": {},
        "headers": {
            "accept": "*/*",
            "host": "httpbin.org",
            "user-agent": "curl/7.37.1"
        }
    },
    "upstream_uri": "/",
    "response": {
        "status": 200,
        "size": "434",
        "headers": {
            "Content-Length": "197",
            "via": "kong/0.3.0",
            "Connection": "close",
            "access-control-allow-credentials": "true",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "server": "nginx",
            "access-control-allow-origin": "*"
        }
    },
    "tries": [
        {
            "state": "next",
            "code": 502,
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        },
        {
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        }
    ],
    "authenticated_entity": {
        "consumer_id": "80f74eef-31b8-45d5-c525-ae532297ea8e",
        "id": "eaa330c0-4cff-47f5-c79e-b2e4f355207e"
    },
    "route": {
        "created_at": 1521555129,
        "hosts": null,
        "id": "75818c5f-202d-4b82-a553-6a46e7c9a19e",
        "methods": null,
        "paths": [
            "/example-path"
        ],
        "preserve_host": false,
        "protocols": [
            "http",
            "https"
        ],
        "regex_priority": 0,
        "service": {
            "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804"
        },
        "strip_path": true,
        "updated_at": 1521555129
    },
    "service": {
        "connect_timeout": 60000,
        "created_at": 1521554518,
        "host": "example.com",
        "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804",
        "name": "myservice",
        "path": "/",
        "port": 80,
        "protocol": "http",
        "read_timeout": 60000,
        "retries": 5,
        "updated_at": 1521554518,
        "write_timeout": 60000
    },
    "consumer": {
        "username": "demo",
        "created_at": 1491847011000,
        "id": "35b03bfc-7a5b-4a23-a594-aa350c585fa8"
    },
    "latencies": {
        "proxy": 1430,
        "kong": 9,
        "request": 1921
    },
    "client_ip": "127.0.0.1",
    "started_at": 1433209822425
}
```

A few considerations on the above JSON object:

* `request` contains properties about the request sent by the client
* `response` contains properties about the response sent to the client
* `tries` contains the list of (re)tries (successes and failures) made by the load balancer for this request
* `route` contains Kong properties about the specific Route requested
* `service` contains Kong properties about the Service associated with the requested Route
* `authenticated_entity` contains Kong properties about the authenticated credential (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `consumer` contains the authenticated Consumer (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `latencies` contains some data about the latencies involved:
  * `proxy` is the time it took for the final service to process the request
  * `kong` is the internal Kong latency that it took to run all the plugins
  * `request` is the time elapsed between the first bytes were read from the client and after the last bytes were sent to the client. Useful for detecting slow clients.
* `client_ip` contains the original client IP address
* `started_at` contains the UTC timestamp of when the API transaction has started to be processed.

----

## Notes

* Make sure Syslog daemon is running on the instance and it's configured with logging level severity same as or lower than the set `config.log_level`.   

## Kong Process Errors

This logging plugin will only log HTTP request and response data. If you are looking for the Kong process error file (which is the nginx error file), then you can find it at the following path: {[prefix](/{{site.data.kong_latest.release}}/configuration/#prefix)}/logs/error.log

Commit message:

docs(hub) add warning about dead code (#915)
* docs(hub) add warning about dead code

This is to encourage contributors to update the correct file(s).

* docs(hub) more dead code warnings

app/plugins/syslog.md, after:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/syslog


# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
#
# FIXME This file is dead code - it is no longer being rendered or utilized,
# and updates to this file will have no effect.
#
# The remaining contents of this file (below) will be deleted soon.
#
# Updates to the content below should instead be made to the file(s) in /app/_hub/
#
# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


id: page-plugin
title: Plugins - Syslog
header_title: Syslog
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/plugins/syslog.png
breadcrumbs:
  Plugins: /plugins
nav:
  - label: Usage
    items:
      - label: Log Format
      - label: Notes
      - label: Kong Process Errors
description: |
  Log request and response data to Syslog.

params:
  name: syslog
  api_id: true
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  config:
    - name: successful_severity
      required: false
      default: "`info`"
      description: An optional logging severity assigned to the all successful requests with response status code less then 400 .
    - name: client_errors_severity
      required: false
      default: "`info`"
      description: An optional logging severity assigned to the all failed requests with response status code 400 or higher but less than 500.
    - name: server_errors_severity
      required: false
      default: "`info`"
      description: An optional logging severity assigned to the all failed requests with response status code 500 or higher.
    - name: log_level
      required: false
      default: "`info`"
      description: An optional logging severity, any request with equal or higher severity will be logged to System log.  

---

## Log Format

Every request will be logged to System log in [SYSLOG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog) standard, with `message` component in the following format:

```json
{
    "request": {
        "method": "GET",
        "uri": "/get",
        "url": "http://httpbin.org:8000/get",
        "size": "75",
        "querystring": {},
        "headers": {
            "accept": "*/*",
            "host": "httpbin.org",
            "user-agent": "curl/7.37.1"
        }
    },
    "upstream_uri": "/",
    "response": {
        "status": 200,
        "size": "434",
        "headers": {
            "Content-Length": "197",
            "via": "kong/0.3.0",
            "Connection": "close",
            "access-control-allow-credentials": "true",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "server": "nginx",
            "access-control-allow-origin": "*"
        }
    },
    "tries": [
        {
            "state": "next",
            "code": 502,
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        },
        {
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        }
    ],
    "authenticated_entity": {
        "consumer_id": "80f74eef-31b8-45d5-c525-ae532297ea8e",
        "id": "eaa330c0-4cff-47f5-c79e-b2e4f355207e"
    },
    "route": {
        "created_at": 1521555129,
        "hosts": null,
        "id": "75818c5f-202d-4b82-a553-6a46e7c9a19e",
        "methods": null,
        "paths": [
            "/example-path"
        ],
        "preserve_host": false,
        "protocols": [
            "http",
            "https"
        ],
        "regex_priority": 0,
        "service": {
            "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804"
        },
        "strip_path": true,
        "updated_at": 1521555129
    },
    "service": {
        "connect_timeout": 60000,
        "created_at": 1521554518,
        "host": "example.com",
        "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804",
        "name": "myservice",
        "path": "/",
        "port": 80,
        "protocol": "http",
        "read_timeout": 60000,
        "retries": 5,
        "updated_at": 1521554518,
        "write_timeout": 60000
    },
    "consumer": {
        "username": "demo",
        "created_at": 1491847011000,
        "id": "35b03bfc-7a5b-4a23-a594-aa350c585fa8"
    },
    "latencies": {
        "proxy": 1430,
        "kong": 9,
        "request": 1921
    },
    "client_ip": "127.0.0.1",
    "started_at": 1433209822425
}
```

A few considerations on the above JSON object:

* `request` contains properties about the request sent by the client
* `response` contains properties about the response sent to the client
* `tries` contains the list of (re)tries (successes and failures) made by the load balancer for this request
* `route` contains Kong properties about the specific Route requested
* `service` contains Kong properties about the Service associated with the requested Route
* `authenticated_entity` contains Kong properties about the authenticated credential (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `consumer` contains the authenticated Consumer (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `latencies` contains some data about the latencies involved:
  * `proxy` is the time it took for the final service to process the request
  * `kong` is the internal Kong latency that it took to run all the plugins
  * `request` is the time elapsed between the first bytes were read from the client and after the last bytes were sent to the client. Useful for detecting slow clients.
* `client_ip` contains the original client IP address
* `started_at` contains the UTC timestamp of when the API transaction has started to be processed.

----

## Notes

* Make sure Syslog daemon is running on the instance and it's configured with logging level severity same as or lower than the set `config.log_level`.   

## Kong Process Errors

This logging plugin will only log HTTP request and response data. If you are looking for the Kong process error file (which is the nginx error file), then you can find it at the following path: {[prefix](/{{site.data.kong_latest.release}}/configuration/#prefix)}/logs/error.log
