app/_hub/kong-inc/http-log/index.md, before:

---
name: HTTP Log
publisher: Kong Inc.

desc: Send request and response logs to an HTTP server
description: |
  Send request and response logs to an HTTP server.

  <div class="alert alert-warning">
    <strong>Note:</strong> The functionality of this plugin as bundled
    with versions of Kong prior to 0.10.2 differs from
    what is documented herein. Refer to the
    <a href="https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md">CHANGELOG</a>
    for details.
  </div>

type: plugin
categories:
  - logging

kong_version_compatibility:
    community_edition:
      compatible:
        - 0.14.x
        - 0.13.x
        - 0.12.x
        - 0.11.x
        - 0.10.x
        - 0.9.x
        - 0.8.x
        - 0.7.x
        - 0.6.x
        - 0.5.x
        - 0.4.x
        - 0.3.x
    enterprise_edition:
      compatible:
        - 0.34-x
        - 0.33-x
        - 0.32-x
        - 0.31-x

params:
  name: http-log
  api_id: true
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  config:
    - name: http_endpoint
      required: true
      default:
      value_in_examples: http://mockbin.org/bin/:id
      description: The HTTP endpoint (including the protocol to use) to which the data will be sent.
    - name: method
      required: false
      default: "`POST`"
      value_in_examples: POST
      description: |
        An optional method used to send data to the http server, other supported values are `PUT`, `PATCH`
    - name: timeout
      required: false
      default: "`10000`"
      value_in_examples: 1000
      description: An optional timeout in milliseconds when sending data to the upstream server
    - name: keepalive
      required: false
      default: "`60000`"
      value_in_examples: 1000
      description: An optional value in milliseconds that defines for how long an idle connection will live before being closed
  extra: |
    **NOTE:** If the `config.http_endpoint` contains a username and password (ex.
    `http://bob:password@example.com/logs`), then Kong will automatically include
    a basic-auth `Authorization` header in the log requests.

---

## Log Format

Every request will be logged separately in a JSON object, with the following format:

```json
{
    "request": {
        "method": "GET",
        "uri": "/get",
        "url": "http://httpbin.org:8000/get",
        "size": "75",
        "querystring": {},
        "headers": {
            "accept": "*/*",
            "host": "httpbin.org",
            "user-agent": "curl/7.37.1"
        }
    },
    "upstream_uri": "/",
    "response": {
        "status": 200,
        "size": "434",
        "headers": {
            "Content-Length": "197",
            "via": "kong/0.3.0",
            "Connection": "close",
            "access-control-allow-credentials": "true",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "server": "nginx",
            "access-control-allow-origin": "*"
        }
    },
    "tries": [
        {
            "state": "next",
            "code": 502,
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        },
        {
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        }
    ],
    "authenticated_entity": {
        "consumer_id": "80f74eef-31b8-45d5-c525-ae532297ea8e",
        "id": "eaa330c0-4cff-47f5-c79e-b2e4f355207e"
    },
    "route": {
        "created_at": 1521555129,
        "hosts": null,
        "id": "75818c5f-202d-4b82-a553-6a46e7c9a19e",
        "methods": null,
        "paths": [
            "/example-path"
        ],
        "preserve_host": false,
        "protocols": [
            "http",
            "https"
        ],
        "regex_priority": 0,
        "service": {
            "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804"
        },
        "strip_path": true,
        "updated_at": 1521555129
    },
    "service": {
        "connect_timeout": 60000,
        "created_at": 1521554518,
        "host": "example.com",
        "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804",
        "name": "myservice",
        "path": "/",
        "port": 80,
        "protocol": "http",
        "read_timeout": 60000,
        "retries": 5,
        "updated_at": 1521554518,
        "write_timeout": 60000
    },
    "consumer": {
        "username": "demo",
        "created_at": 1491847011000,
        "id": "35b03bfc-7a5b-4a23-a594-aa350c585fa8"
    },
    "latencies": {
        "proxy": 1430,
        "kong": 9,
        "request": 1921
    },
    "client_ip": "127.0.0.1",
    "started_at": 1433209822425
}
```

A few considerations on the above JSON object:

* `request` contains properties about the request sent by the client
* `response` contains properties about the response sent to the client
* `tries` contains the list of (re)tries (successes and failures) made by the load balancer for this request
* `route` contains Kong properties about the specific Route requested
* `service` contains Kong properties about the Service associated with the requested Route
* `authenticated_entity` contains Kong properties about the authenticated credential (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `consumer` contains the authenticated Consumer (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `latencies` contains some data about the latencies involved:
  * `proxy` is the time it took for the final service to process the request
  * `kong` is the internal Kong latency that it took to run all the plugins
  * `request` is the time elapsed between the first bytes were read from the client and after the last bytes were sent to the client. Useful for detecting slow clients.
* `client_ip` contains the original client IP address
* `started_at` contains the UTC timestamp of when the request has started to be processed.

----

## Kong Process Errors

This logging plugin will only log HTTP request and response data. If you are
looking for the Kong process error file (which is the nginx error file), then
you can find it at the following path:
`$KONG_PREFIX/logs/error.log`,
where `$KONG_PREFIX` means
[prefix in the configuration](/{{site.data.kong_latest.release}}/configuration/#prefix).

Commit message:

docs(hub*) add example protocol and layer values

app/_hub/kong-inc/http-log/index.md, after:

---
name: HTTP Log
publisher: Kong Inc.

desc: Send request and response logs to an HTTP server
description: |
  Send request and response logs to an HTTP server.

  <div class="alert alert-warning">
    <strong>Note:</strong> The functionality of this plugin as bundled
    with versions of Kong prior to 0.10.2 differs from
    what is documented herein. Refer to the
    <a href="https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md">CHANGELOG</a>
    for details.
  </div>

type: plugin
categories:
  - logging

kong_version_compatibility:
    community_edition:
      compatible:
        - 0.14.x
        - 0.13.x
        - 0.12.x
        - 0.11.x
        - 0.10.x
        - 0.9.x
        - 0.8.x
        - 0.7.x
        - 0.6.x
        - 0.5.x
        - 0.4.x
        - 0.3.x
    enterprise_edition:
      compatible:
        - 0.34-x
        - 0.33-x
        - 0.32-x
        - 0.31-x

params:
  name: http-log
  api_id: true
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  protocol: stream # FIXME remove or correct this value before publication
  layer: inner # FIXME remove or correct this value before publication
  config:
    - name: http_endpoint
      required: true
      default:
      value_in_examples: http://mockbin.org/bin/:id
      description: The HTTP endpoint (including the protocol to use) to which the data will be sent.
    - name: method
      required: false
      default: "`POST`"
      value_in_examples: POST
      description: |
        An optional method used to send data to the http server, other supported values are `PUT`, `PATCH`
    - name: timeout
      required: false
      default: "`10000`"
      value_in_examples: 1000
      description: An optional timeout in milliseconds when sending data to the upstream server
    - name: keepalive
      required: false
      default: "`60000`"
      value_in_examples: 1000
      description: An optional value in milliseconds that defines for how long an idle connection will live before being closed
  extra: |
    **NOTE:** If the `config.http_endpoint` contains a username and password (ex.
    `http://bob:password@example.com/logs`), then Kong will automatically include
    a basic-auth `Authorization` header in the log requests.

---

## Log Format

Every request will be logged separately in a JSON object, with the following format:

```json
{
    "request": {
        "method": "GET",
        "uri": "/get",
        "url": "http://httpbin.org:8000/get",
        "size": "75",
        "querystring": {},
        "headers": {
            "accept": "*/*",
            "host": "httpbin.org",
            "user-agent": "curl/7.37.1"
        }
    },
    "upstream_uri": "/",
    "response": {
        "status": 200,
        "size": "434",
        "headers": {
            "Content-Length": "197",
            "via": "kong/0.3.0",
            "Connection": "close",
            "access-control-allow-credentials": "true",
            "Content-Type": "application/json",
            "server": "nginx",
            "access-control-allow-origin": "*"
        }
    },
    "tries": [
        {
            "state": "next",
            "code": 502,
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        },
        {
            "ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 8000
        }
    ],
    "authenticated_entity": {
        "consumer_id": "80f74eef-31b8-45d5-c525-ae532297ea8e",
        "id": "eaa330c0-4cff-47f5-c79e-b2e4f355207e"
    },
    "route": {
        "created_at": 1521555129,
        "hosts": null,
        "id": "75818c5f-202d-4b82-a553-6a46e7c9a19e",
        "methods": null,
        "paths": [
            "/example-path"
        ],
        "preserve_host": false,
        "protocols": [
            "http",
            "https"
        ],
        "regex_priority": 0,
        "service": {
            "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804"
        },
        "strip_path": true,
        "updated_at": 1521555129
    },
    "service": {
        "connect_timeout": 60000,
        "created_at": 1521554518,
        "host": "example.com",
        "id": "0590139e-7481-466c-bcdf-929adcaaf804",
        "name": "myservice",
        "path": "/",
        "port": 80,
        "protocol": "http",
        "read_timeout": 60000,
        "retries": 5,
        "updated_at": 1521554518,
        "write_timeout": 60000
    },
    "consumer": {
        "username": "demo",
        "created_at": 1491847011000,
        "id": "35b03bfc-7a5b-4a23-a594-aa350c585fa8"
    },
    "latencies": {
        "proxy": 1430,
        "kong": 9,
        "request": 1921
    },
    "client_ip": "127.0.0.1",
    "started_at": 1433209822425
}
```

A few considerations on the above JSON object:

* `request` contains properties about the request sent by the client
* `response` contains properties about the response sent to the client
* `tries` contains the list of (re)tries (successes and failures) made by the load balancer for this request
* `route` contains Kong properties about the specific Route requested
* `service` contains Kong properties about the Service associated with the requested Route
* `authenticated_entity` contains Kong properties about the authenticated credential (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `consumer` contains the authenticated Consumer (if an authentication plugin has been enabled)
* `latencies` contains some data about the latencies involved:
  * `proxy` is the time it took for the final service to process the request
  * `kong` is the internal Kong latency that it took to run all the plugins
  * `request` is the time elapsed between the first bytes were read from the client and after the last bytes were sent to the client. Useful for detecting slow clients.
* `client_ip` contains the original client IP address
* `started_at` contains the UTC timestamp of when the request has started to be processed.

----

## Kong Process Errors

This logging plugin will only log HTTP request and response data. If you are
looking for the Kong process error file (which is the nginx error file), then
you can find it at the following path:
`$KONG_PREFIX/logs/error.log`,
where `$KONG_PREFIX` means
[prefix in the configuration](/{{site.data.kong_latest.release}}/configuration/#prefix).
