app/install/kubernetes.md, before:

---
id: page-install-method
title: Install - Kong on Kubernetes
header_title: Kong CE or EE on Kubernetes
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/icn-installation.svg
breadcrumbs:
  Installation: /install
links:
  gcloud: "https://cloud.google.com/sdk/"
  kubectl: "https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/docs/quickstart#install_the_gcloud_command-line_interface"
  gh_tag: "https://github.com/Kong/kong-dist-kubernetes/tree/1.0.0"
  minikube: "https://github.com/Kong/kong-dist-kubernetes/blob/master/minikube/README.md"
  kubeapps_hub: "https://hub.kubeapps.com/charts/stable/kong"
  gh_repo: "https://github.com/Kong/kong-dist-kubernetes/"
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  This documentation covers installing Kong
  in Kubernetes. Kong can also be installed and used as a <a href="https://konghq.com/blog/kubernetes-ingress-controller-for-kong/">Kubernetes
  Ingress Controller</a>.
</div>

# Kong Community Edition via Helm or Minikube

The easiest way to deploy Kong Community Edition (CE) on Kubernetes is via [Helm]({{ page.links.kubeapps_hub }}).

Kong CE can also be deployed on minikube - please follow the [README]({{ page.links.minikube }})
and use the manifest files provided in `minikube` directory.

# Kong Community Edition or Enterprise Edition via Manifest Files

Kong CE, or the trial version of Kong Enterprise Edition (EE), can be provisioned
on a Kubernetes cluster via the manifest files provided
in the [repo]({{ page.links.gh_repo }}). These instructions (mostly) assume you are using
[Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/) -
you may need to make adjustments to deploy to other Kubernetes clusters.

1. **Initial setup**

    Download or clone the following repo:

    ```bash
    $ git clone git@github.com:Kong/kong-dist-kubernetes.git
    $ cd kong-dist-kubernetes
    ```

    Skip to step 3 if you have already provisioned a cluster and registered it
    with Kubernetes.

2.  **Deploy a GKE cluster**

    You need [gcloud]({{ page.links.gcloud }}) and [kubectl]({{ page.links.kubectl }})
    command-line tools installed and set up to run deployment commands. Also
    make sure your Google Cloud account has `STATIC_ADDRESSES` available for
    the external access of Kong services.

    Using the `cluster.yaml` file from this repo, deploy a
    GKE cluster. Provide the following information before deploying:

    1. Desired cluster name
    2. Zone in which to run the cluster
    3. A basicauth username and password for authenticating the access to the
       cluster

    ```bash
    $ gcloud deployment-manager deployments \
        create cluster --config cluster.yaml
    ```

3. **Deploy a datastore**

    Before deploying Kong, you need to provision a Cassandra or PostgreSQL pod.

    For Cassandra, use the `cassandra.yaml` file from this repo to deploy a
    Cassandra `Service` and a `StatefulSet` in the cluster.

    ```bash
    $ kubectl create -f cassandra.yaml
    ```

    For PostgreSQL, use the `postgres.yaml` file from the kong-dist-kubernetes
    repo to deploy a PostgreSQL `Service` and a `ReplicationController` in the
    cluster:

    ```bash
    $ kubectl create -f postgres.yaml
    ```

    **Kong Enterprise Edition trial users** should complete the steps in the
    **Additional Steps for Kong EE Trial Users** section below before proceeding.

4. **Prepare database**

    Using the `kong_migration_<postgres|cassandra>.yaml` file,
    run the migration job:

    ```bash
    $ kubectl create -f kong_migration_<postgres|cassandra>.yaml
    ```
    Once the job completes, you can remove the pod by running following command:

    ```bash
    $ kubectl delete -f kong_migration_<postgres|cassandra>.yaml
    ```

5. **Deploy Kong**

    Using the `kong_<postgres|cassandra>.yaml` file from this
    repo, deploy Kong admin, proxy services, and a `Deployment` controller to
    the cluster:

    ```bash
    $ kubectl create -f kong_<postgres|cassandra>.yaml
    ```

6. **Verify your deployments**

    You can now see the resources that have been deployed using `kubectl`:

    ```bash
    $ kubectl get all
    ```

    Once the `EXTERNAL_IP` is available for Kong Proxy and Admin services, you
    can test Kong by making the following requests:

    ```bash
    $ curl <kong-admin-ip-address>:8001
    $ curl https://<admin-ssl-ip-address>:8444
    $ curl <kong-proxy-ip-address>:8000
    $ curl https://<kong-proxy-ssl-ip-address>:8443
    ```

7. **Get Started with Kong**

    Quickly learn how to use Kong with the
    [5-minute Quickstart](/latest/getting-started/quickstart/).

# Additional Steps for Kong EE Trial Users

1. **Publish a Kong EE Docker image to your container registry**

    Because the Kong EE image is not available on the public Docker container registry,
    you must publish it to a private repository for use with Kubernetes. While any private
    repository will work, this example uses the
    [Google Cloud Platform Container Registry](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/),
    which automatically integrates with the Google Cloud Platform examples in the other steps.

    In the steps below, replace `<image ID>` with ID associated with your loaded image in `docker images` output.
    Replace `<project ID>` with your [Google Cloud Platform project ID](https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/6158840).

    ```bash
    $ docker load -i /tmp/kong-docker-enterprise-edition.tar.gz
    $ docker images
    $ docker tag <image ID> gcr.io/<project ID>/kong-ee
    $ gcloud docker -- push gcr.io/demo-cs-lab/kong-ee:latest
    ```
2. **Add your Kong EE License File**

    Edit `kong_trial_postgres.yaml` and `kong_trial_migration_postgres.yaml` to replace
    `YOUR_LICENSE_HERE` with your Kong EE License File string - it should look like:

    ```yaml
    - name: KONG_LICENSE_DATA
    value: '{"license":{"signature":"alongstringofcharacters","payload":{"customer":"Test Company","license_creation_date":"2018-03-06","product_subscription":"Kong Only","admin_seats":"5","support_plan":"Premier","license_expiration_date":"2018-06-04","license_key":"anotherstringofcharacters"},"version":1}}'
    ```

3. **Use the Kong EE image**

    Edit `kong_trial_postgres.yaml` and `kong_trial_migration_postgres.yaml` and replace
    `image: kong` with `image: gcr.io/<project ID>/kong-ee`, using the same project ID as above.

4. **Deploy Kong EE**

    Continue from step 4 in the **Kong Community Edition or Enterprise Edition via Manifest Files**
    instruction above, using the `kong_trial_*` YAML files in the
    [EE Trial directory](https://github.com/Kong/kong-dist-kubernetes/tree/master/ee-trial).
    Once Kong EE is running, you should be able to access the Kong Admin GUI
    at `<kong-admin-ip-address>:8002` or `https://<kong-ssl-admin-ip-address>:8445`.

Commit message:

docs(install) kubernetes ingress controller (#801)

app/install/kubernetes.md, after:

---
id: page-install-method
title: Install - Kong on Kubernetes
header_title: Kong CE or EE on Kubernetes
header_icon: /assets/images/icons/icn-installation.svg
breadcrumbs:
  Installation: /install
links:
  gcloud: "https://cloud.google.com/sdk/"
  kubectl: "https://cloud.google.com/container-engine/docs/quickstart#install_the_gcloud_command-line_interface"
  gh_tag: "https://github.com/Kong/kong-dist-kubernetes/tree/1.0.0"
  minikube: "https://github.com/Kong/kong-dist-kubernetes/blob/master/minikube/README.md"
  kubeapps_hub: "https://hub.kubeapps.com/charts/stable/kong"
  gh_repo: "https://github.com/Kong/kong-dist-kubernetes/"
---

# Kubernetes Ingress Controller

You can install Kong CE or EE using our official <a href="https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller">Kubernetes Ingress Controller</a>.

You can learn more by checking out the <a href="https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/blob/master/README.md">README.md</a> file in the GitHub repository. To get up and running quickly, you can also follow the <a href="https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/tree/master/deploy">Minikube and Minishift tutorials</a> on the same repository.

If you are curious, you can also read the <a href="https://konghq.com/blog/kubernetes-ingress-controller-for-kong/">official announcment</a> on our Blog. Finally, if you experience any problem or have some feedback, please <a href="https://github.com/Kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller/issues">open a new issue</a> on GitHub.

# Kong Community Edition via Helm or Minikube

The easiest way to deploy Kong Community Edition (CE) on Kubernetes is via [Helm]({{ page.links.kubeapps_hub }}).

Kong CE can also be deployed on minikube - please follow the [README]({{ page.links.minikube }})
and use the manifest files provided in `minikube` directory.

# Kong Community Edition or Enterprise Edition via Manifest Files

Kong CE, or the trial version of Kong Enterprise Edition (EE), can be provisioned
on a Kubernetes cluster via the manifest files provided
in the [repo]({{ page.links.gh_repo }}). These instructions (mostly) assume you are using
[Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/) -
you may need to make adjustments to deploy to other Kubernetes clusters.

1. **Initial setup**

    Download or clone the following repo:

    ```bash
    $ git clone git@github.com:Kong/kong-dist-kubernetes.git
    $ cd kong-dist-kubernetes
    ```

    Skip to step 3 if you have already provisioned a cluster and registered it
    with Kubernetes.

2.  **Deploy a GKE cluster**

    You need [gcloud]({{ page.links.gcloud }}) and [kubectl]({{ page.links.kubectl }})
    command-line tools installed and set up to run deployment commands. Also
    make sure your Google Cloud account has `STATIC_ADDRESSES` available for
    the external access of Kong services.

    Using the `cluster.yaml` file from this repo, deploy a
    GKE cluster. Provide the following information before deploying:

    1. Desired cluster name
    2. Zone in which to run the cluster
    3. A basicauth username and password for authenticating the access to the
       cluster

    ```bash
    $ gcloud deployment-manager deployments \
        create cluster --config cluster.yaml
    ```

3. **Deploy a datastore**

    Before deploying Kong, you need to provision a Cassandra or PostgreSQL pod.

    For Cassandra, use the `cassandra.yaml` file from this repo to deploy a
    Cassandra `Service` and a `StatefulSet` in the cluster.

    ```bash
    $ kubectl create -f cassandra.yaml
    ```

    For PostgreSQL, use the `postgres.yaml` file from the kong-dist-kubernetes
    repo to deploy a PostgreSQL `Service` and a `ReplicationController` in the
    cluster:

    ```bash
    $ kubectl create -f postgres.yaml
    ```

    **Kong Enterprise Edition trial users** should complete the steps in the
    **Additional Steps for Kong EE Trial Users** section below before proceeding.

4. **Prepare database**

    Using the `kong_migration_<postgres|cassandra>.yaml` file,
    run the migration job:

    ```bash
    $ kubectl create -f kong_migration_<postgres|cassandra>.yaml
    ```
    Once the job completes, you can remove the pod by running following command:

    ```bash
    $ kubectl delete -f kong_migration_<postgres|cassandra>.yaml
    ```

5. **Deploy Kong**

    Using the `kong_<postgres|cassandra>.yaml` file from this
    repo, deploy Kong admin, proxy services, and a `Deployment` controller to
    the cluster:

    ```bash
    $ kubectl create -f kong_<postgres|cassandra>.yaml
    ```

6. **Verify your deployments**

    You can now see the resources that have been deployed using `kubectl`:

    ```bash
    $ kubectl get all
    ```

    Once the `EXTERNAL_IP` is available for Kong Proxy and Admin services, you
    can test Kong by making the following requests:

    ```bash
    $ curl <kong-admin-ip-address>:8001
    $ curl https://<admin-ssl-ip-address>:8444
    $ curl <kong-proxy-ip-address>:8000
    $ curl https://<kong-proxy-ssl-ip-address>:8443
    ```

7. **Get Started with Kong**

    Quickly learn how to use Kong with the
    [5-minute Quickstart](/latest/getting-started/quickstart/).

# Additional Steps for Kong EE Trial Users

1. **Publish a Kong EE Docker image to your container registry**

    Because the Kong EE image is not available on the public Docker container registry,
    you must publish it to a private repository for use with Kubernetes. While any private
    repository will work, this example uses the
    [Google Cloud Platform Container Registry](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry/),
    which automatically integrates with the Google Cloud Platform examples in the other steps.

    In the steps below, replace `<image ID>` with ID associated with your loaded image in `docker images` output.
    Replace `<project ID>` with your [Google Cloud Platform project ID](https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/6158840).

    ```bash
    $ docker load -i /tmp/kong-docker-enterprise-edition.tar.gz
    $ docker images
    $ docker tag <image ID> gcr.io/<project ID>/kong-ee
    $ gcloud docker -- push gcr.io/demo-cs-lab/kong-ee:latest
    ```
2. **Add your Kong EE License File**

    Edit `kong_trial_postgres.yaml` and `kong_trial_migration_postgres.yaml` to replace
    `YOUR_LICENSE_HERE` with your Kong EE License File string - it should look like:

    ```yaml
    - name: KONG_LICENSE_DATA
    value: '{"license":{"signature":"alongstringofcharacters","payload":{"customer":"Test Company","license_creation_date":"2018-03-06","product_subscription":"Kong Only","admin_seats":"5","support_plan":"Premier","license_expiration_date":"2018-06-04","license_key":"anotherstringofcharacters"},"version":1}}'
    ```

3. **Use the Kong EE image**

    Edit `kong_trial_postgres.yaml` and `kong_trial_migration_postgres.yaml` and replace
    `image: kong` with `image: gcr.io/<project ID>/kong-ee`, using the same project ID as above.

4. **Deploy Kong EE**

    Continue from step 4 in the **Kong Community Edition or Enterprise Edition via Manifest Files**
    instruction above, using the `kong_trial_*` YAML files in the
    [EE Trial directory](https://github.com/Kong/kong-dist-kubernetes/tree/master/ee-trial).
    Once Kong EE is running, you should be able to access the Kong Admin GUI
    at `<kong-admin-ip-address>:8002` or `https://<kong-ssl-admin-ip-address>:8445`.
