---
title: Renew Certificates for a Runtime Instance
no_version: true
---

Runtime certificates generated by {{site.konnect_saas}} expire every ten
years. If you bring your own certificates, make sure to monitor the
expiration date.

Renew your certificates to prevent any interruption in communication between
{{site.konnect_saas}} and any configured runtimes (data planes). If a
certificate expires and is not replaced:
* The runtime instance stops receiving configuration updates from
the control plane.
* The runtime instance stops sending [Vitals](/konnect/vitals) and usage data
to the control plane.
* Each disconnected runtime instance uses cached configuration to continue
proxying and routing traffic.

Depending on your setup, renewing certificates might mean bringing up a new data
plane, or generating new certificates and updating data planes with the new
files.

## Quick setup

If you originally created your runtime instance container using the
[quick setup Docker script](/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/runtime-instances/gateway-runtime-docker/#quick-setup),
we recommend running the script again to create a new instance with renewed
certificates.

1. Stop the runtime instance container.
2. Open {% konnect_icon runtimes %} **Runtime Manager**, select a runtime group,
 and click **+ New Runtime Instance**.
3. Run the script again to
[create a new runtime instance](/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/runtime-instances/gateway-runtime-docker/#quick-setup) with
updated certificates.
4. Remove the old runtime instance container.

## Advanced setup

If your runtime instances are running on Linux or Kubernetes, or if you have a
Docker container that was _not_ created using the quick setup script,
generate new certificates and replace them on the existing nodes.

### Generate new certificates

1. Open {% konnect_icon runtimes %} **Runtime Manager**, select a runtime group, and
click **+ New Runtime Instance**.
2. Open the tab that suits your environment: **Linux** or **Kubernetes**.

    If you're running a Docker container, you can use either of these tabs to
    complete the following steps.

3. Click **Generate Certificate**.
4. Save the new certificate and key into separate files:

    * Certificate: `tls.crt`
    * Private key: `tls.key`

5. Store the files on your runtime's local filesystem.

### Update data plane

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab Linux %}

Open your instance's `kong.conf` file. Replace existing certificates with
the new files:

```sh
cluster_cert = /{PATH_TO_FILE}/tls.crt
cluster_cert_key = /{PATH_TO_FILE}/tls.key
```

Restart {{site.base_gateway}} for the settings to take effect:

```sh
kong restart
```

Clean up by deleting any old certificate and key files on your filesystem.

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Kubernetes %}

Create new secrets for the certificates and key, making sure to name them
something different from your current secret names.

1. Create a `tls` secret using the `tls.cert` and `tls.key` files
you saved earlier:

    ```sh
    kubectl create secret tls kong-cluster-cert2 -n kong \
      --cert=/{PATH_TO_FILE}/tls.crt \
      --key=/{PATH_TO_FILE}/tls.key
    ```

1. Open the `values.yaml` file for your runtime instance and update it to point
to the new secrets.

    Update the `secretVolumes` section:

    ```yaml
    secretVolumes:
    - kong-cluster-cert2
    ```

    Update the cert values in the `env` section:
    ```yaml
    env:
      cluster_cert: /etc/secrets/kong-cluster-cert2/tls.crt
      cluster_cert_key: /etc/secrets/kong-cluster-cert2/tls.key
    ```

1. Save the file. Reapply the configuration by running the Helm `upgrade`
command:

    ```bash
    helm upgrade my-kong kong/kong -n kong \
      --values ./values.yaml
    ```

1. Delete the old `kong-cluster-cert` secret:

    ```sh
    kubectl delete secret kong-cluster-cert
    ```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Docker %}

In your Docker container, replace existing certificates on your runtime instances
with the new files and restart the Gateway:

```sh
echo "KONG_CLUSTER_CERT=/{PATH_TO_FILE}/tls.crt \
  KONG_CLUSTER_CERT_KEY=/{PATH_TO_FILE}/tls.key \
  kong reload exit" | docker exec -i {KONG_CONTAINER_ID} /bin/sh
```

Clean up by deleting any old certificate and key files on your filesystem.

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
