app/_hub/bitnami/microsoft_azure/index.md, before:

---
name: Kong on Microsoft Azure Certified
publisher: Bitnami

categories:
  - deployment

type: integration

desc: # (required) 1-liner description; max 80 chars
description: #|
  # (required) extended description.
  # Use YAML piple notation for extended entries.
  # EXAMPLE long text format (do not use this entry)
  # description: |
  #   Maintain an indentation of two (2) spaces after denoting a block with
  #   YAML pipe notation.
  #
  #   Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting
  #   industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever
  #   since the 1500s.

support_url: https://bitnami.com/support/azure

source_url: # (Optional) If your extension is open source, provide a link to your code.

license_type: Apache-2.0
  # (Optional) For open source, use the abbreviations in parentheses at:
  # https://opensource.org/licenses/alphabetical

license_url: https://bitnami.com/azure/terms
  # (Optional) Link to your custom license.

privacy_policy: Bitnami Privacy Policy can be found at https://bitnami.com/privacy
  # (Optional) If you have a custom privacy policy, place it here

privacy_policy_url: https://bitnami.com/privacy
  # (Optional) Link to a remote privacy policy

terms_of_service: Bitnami Terms of Use can be found at https://bitnami.com/terms-of-use
  # (Optional) Text describing your terms of service.

terms_of_service_url: https://bitnami.com/terms-of-use
  # (Optional) Link to your online TOS.

# COMPATIBILITY
# In the following sections, list Kong versions as array items.
# Versions are categorized by Kong edition and their known compatibility.
# Unlisted Kong versions will be considered to have "unknown" compatibility.
# Uncomment at least one of 'community_edition' or 'enterprise_edition'.
# Add array-formatted lists of versions under their appropriate subsection.

kong_version_compatibility: # required
  community_edition: # optional
    compatible:
        - 0.14.x
    #incompatible:
  # enterprise_edition: # optional
    # compatible:
        # - 0.34-x
        # - 0.33-x
        # - 0.32-x
    #incompatible:

###############################################################################
# END YAML DATA
# Beneath the next --- use Markdown (redcarpet flavor) and HTML formatting only.
#
# The remainder of this file is for free-form description, instruction, and
# reference matter.
# If you include headers, your headers MUST start at Level 2 (parsing to
# h2 tag in HTML). Heading Level 2 is represented by ## notation
# preceding the header text. Subsequent headings,
# if you choose to use them, must be properly nested (eg. heading level 2 may
# be followed by another heading level 2, or by heading level 3, but must NOT be
# followed by heading level 4)
###############################################################################
# BEGIN MARKDOWN CONTENT
---

## Deploying Kong via the Azure Marketplace
The Azure Marketplace provides quickstart templates that allow you to very easily install certain technologies.

You can deploy one of the following Kong templates from the marketplace:

1. **Kong Certified by Bitnami**

    The Bitnami Kong Stack provides a one-click install solution for Kong. Bitnami certifies that the images are secure, up-to-date, and packaged using industry best practices.

    You can deploy it in Azure [here](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/bitnami.kong) and all the documentation you need to configure and manage the server at the [Bitnami Docs](https://docs.bitnami.com/azure/apps/kong/).

1. **Kong Cluster**

    Kong Cluster for production environments - This solution configures a load-balanced Kong cluster with an additional Cassandra cluster for data storage. This solutions is a perfect choice to ensure high availability and performance in medium/large size production environments.

    You can deploy Kong Cluster in Azure [here](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/bitnami.kong-cluster) and learn more about how the Cluster is configured at the [Bitnami Docs](https://docs.bitnami.com/azure-templates/apps/kong/get-started/understand-cluster-config/).

Commit message:

Add Bitnami description & maintainer
Co-Authored-By: tomkerkhove <kerkhove.tom@gmail.com>

app/_hub/bitnami/microsoft_azure/index.md, after:

---
# This template is maintained by @marcosbc from Bitnami
name: Kong on Microsoft Azure Certified
publisher: Bitnami

categories:
  - deployment

type: integration

desc: The Bitnami Kong Stack provides a one-click install solution for Kong.
description: |
  The Bitnami Kong Stack provides a one-click install solution for Kong.
  Bitnami certifies that the images are secure, up-to-date, and packaged using
  industry best practices.

  Looking for Kong with fault tolerance and support for heavier workloads? Try
  Bitnami’s Kong Cluster solution, which uses the native cloud provider APIs to
  deploy a multi-node, load-balanced Kong cluster and an additional Cassandra
  cluster for data storage.
  # (required) extended description.
  # Use YAML piple notation for extended entries.
  # EXAMPLE long text format (do not use this entry)
  # description: |
  #   Maintain an indentation of two (2) spaces after denoting a block with
  #   YAML pipe notation.
  #
  #   Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting
  #   industry. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever
  #   since the 1500s.

support_url: https://bitnami.com/support/azure

source_url: # (Optional) If your extension is open source, provide a link to your code.

license_type: Apache-2.0
  # (Optional) For open source, use the abbreviations in parentheses at:
  # https://opensource.org/licenses/alphabetical

license_url: https://bitnami.com/azure/terms
  # (Optional) Link to your custom license.

privacy_policy: Bitnami Privacy Policy can be found at https://bitnami.com/privacy
  # (Optional) If you have a custom privacy policy, place it here

privacy_policy_url: https://bitnami.com/privacy
  # (Optional) Link to a remote privacy policy

terms_of_service: Bitnami Terms of Use can be found at https://bitnami.com/terms-of-use
  # (Optional) Text describing your terms of service.

terms_of_service_url: https://bitnami.com/terms-of-use
  # (Optional) Link to your online TOS.

# COMPATIBILITY
# In the following sections, list Kong versions as array items.
# Versions are categorized by Kong edition and their known compatibility.
# Unlisted Kong versions will be considered to have "unknown" compatibility.
# Uncomment at least one of 'community_edition' or 'enterprise_edition'.
# Add array-formatted lists of versions under their appropriate subsection.

kong_version_compatibility: # required
  community_edition: # optional
    compatible:
        - 0.14.x
    #incompatible:
  # enterprise_edition: # optional
    # compatible:
        # - 0.34-x
        # - 0.33-x
        # - 0.32-x
    #incompatible:

###############################################################################
# END YAML DATA
# Beneath the next --- use Markdown (redcarpet flavor) and HTML formatting only.
#
# The remainder of this file is for free-form description, instruction, and
# reference matter.
# If you include headers, your headers MUST start at Level 2 (parsing to
# h2 tag in HTML). Heading Level 2 is represented by ## notation
# preceding the header text. Subsequent headings,
# if you choose to use them, must be properly nested (eg. heading level 2 may
# be followed by another heading level 2, or by heading level 3, but must NOT be
# followed by heading level 4)
###############################################################################
# BEGIN MARKDOWN CONTENT
---

## Deploying Kong via the Azure Marketplace
The Azure Marketplace provides quickstart templates that allow you to very easily install certain technologies.

You can deploy one of the following Kong templates from the marketplace:

1. **Kong Certified by Bitnami**

    The Bitnami Kong Stack provides a one-click install solution for Kong. Bitnami certifies that the images are secure, up-to-date, and packaged using industry best practices.

    You can deploy it in Azure [here](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/bitnami.kong) and all the documentation you need to configure and manage the server at the [Bitnami Docs](https://docs.bitnami.com/azure/apps/kong/).

1. **Kong Cluster**

    Kong Cluster for production environments - This solution configures a load-balanced Kong cluster with an additional Cassandra cluster for data storage. This solutions is a perfect choice to ensure high availability and performance in medium/large size production environments.

    You can deploy Kong Cluster in Azure [here](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/bitnami.kong-cluster) and learn more about how the Cluster is configured at the [Bitnami Docs](https://docs.bitnami.com/azure-templates/apps/kong/get-started/understand-cluster-config/).
