app/_hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/index.md, before:

---

name: Rate Limiting Advanced
publisher: Kong Inc.
version: 0.34-x

desc: Upgrades Kong Rate Limiting with more flexibility and higher performance
description: |
  The Rate Limiting Advanced plugin for Kong Enterprise is a re-engineered version of the incredibly popular Kong Rate Limiting plugin, with greatly enhanced configuration options and performance.

enterprise: true
type: plugin
categories:
  - traffic-control

kong_version_compatibility:
    community_edition:
      compatible:
    enterprise_edition:
      compatible:
        - 0.34-x

params:
  name: rate-limiting-advanced
  api_id: true
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  config:
    - name: limit
      required:
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        One of more request per window to apply
    - name: window_size
      required:
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        One more more window sizes to apply (defined in seconds)
    - name: identifier
      required:
      default: consumer
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        How to define the rate limit key. Can be `ip`, `credential`, or `consumer`.
    - name: dictionary_name
      required:
      default: kong_rate_limiting_counters
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        The shared dictionary where counters will be stored until the next sync cycle
    - name: sync_rate
      required:
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        How often to sync counter data to the central data store. A value of 0 results in synchronous behavior; a value of -1 ignores sync behavior entirely and only stores counters in node memory. A value greater than 0 will sync the counters in that many number of seconds.
    - name: namespace
      required: false
      default: random string
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        The rate limiting library namespace to use for this plugin instance. Counter data and sync configuration is shared in a namespace.
    - name: strategy
      required:
      default: cluster
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        The sync strategy to use; `cluster` and `redis` are supported
    - name: redis.host
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Host to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined
    - name: redis.port
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Port to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined
    - name: redis.timeout
      required: semi
      default: 2000
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Connection timeout to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined
    - name: redis.password
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Password to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. If undefined, no AUTH commands are sent to Redis.
    - name: redis.database
      required: semi
      default: 0
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Database to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined
    - name: redis.sentinel_master
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Sentinel master to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
    - name: redis.sentinel_role
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Sentinel role to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
    - name: redis.sentinel_addresses
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Sentinel addresses to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
    - name: window_type
      required:
      default: sliding
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        This sets the time window to either `sliding` or `fixed`
  extra: |
    **Note:  Redis configuration values are ignored if the `cluster` strategy is used.**

    **Note: PostgreSQL 9.5+ is required when using the `cluster` strategy with `postgres` as the backing Kong cluster data store. This requirement varies from the PostgreSQL 9.4+ requirement as described in the <a href="/install/source">Kong Community Edition documentation</a>.**

    **Note: The `dictionary_name` directive was added to prevent the usage of the `kong` shared dictionary, which could lead to `no memory` errors**

---

### Notes

An arbitrary number of limits/window sizes can be applied per plugin instance. This allows users to create multiple rate limiting windows (e.g., rate limit per minute and per hour, and/or per any arbitrary window size); because of limitation with Kong's plugin configuration interface, each *nth* limit will apply to each *nth* window size. For example:

```bash
$ curl -i -X POST http://kong:8001/apis/{api}/plugins \
  --data name=rate-limiting-advanced \
  --data config.limit=10,100 \
  --data config.window_size=60,3600 \
  --data config.sync_rate=10
```
This will apply rate limiting policies, one of which will trip when 10 hits have been counted in 60 seconds, or when 100 hits have been counted in 3600 seconds.

Commit message:

Added link to rate limiting library documentation page

app/_hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/index.md, after:

---

name: Rate Limiting Advanced
publisher: Kong Inc.
version: 0.34-x

desc: Upgrades Kong Rate Limiting with more flexibility and higher performance
description: |
  The Rate Limiting Advanced plugin for Kong Enterprise is a re-engineered version of the incredibly popular Kong Rate Limiting plugin, with greatly enhanced configuration options and performance.

enterprise: true
type: plugin
categories:
  - traffic-control

kong_version_compatibility:
    community_edition:
      compatible:
    enterprise_edition:
      compatible:
        - 0.34-x

params:
  name: rate-limiting-advanced
  api_id: true
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  consumer_id: true
  config:
    - name: limit
      required:
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        One of more request per window to apply
    - name: window_size
      required:
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        One more more window sizes to apply (defined in seconds)
    - name: identifier
      required:
      default: consumer
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        How to define the rate limit key. Can be `ip`, `credential`, or `consumer`.
    - name: dictionary_name
      required:
      default: kong_rate_limiting_counters
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        The shared dictionary where counters will be stored until the next sync cycle
    - name: sync_rate
      required:
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        How often to sync counter data to the central data store. A value of 0 results in synchronous behavior; a value of -1 ignores sync behavior entirely and only stores counters in node memory. A value greater than 0 will sync the counters in that many number of seconds.
    - name: namespace
      required: false
      default: random string
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        The rate limiting library namespace to use for this plugin instance. Counter data and sync configuration is shared in a namespace.
    - name: strategy
      required:
      default: cluster
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        The sync strategy to use; `cluster` and `redis` are supported
    - name: redis.host
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Host to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined
    - name: redis.port
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Port to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined
    - name: redis.timeout
      required: semi
      default: 2000
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Connection timeout to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined
    - name: redis.password
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Password to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. If undefined, no AUTH commands are sent to Redis.
    - name: redis.database
      required: semi
      default: 0
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Database to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined
    - name: redis.sentinel_master
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Sentinel master to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
    - name: redis.sentinel_role
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Sentinel role to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
    - name: redis.sentinel_addresses
      required: semi
      default:
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        Sentinel addresses to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
    - name: window_type
      required:
      default: sliding
      value_in_examples:
      description: |
        This sets the time window to either `sliding` or `fixed`
  extra: |
    **Note:  Redis configuration values are ignored if the `cluster` strategy is used.**

    **Note: PostgreSQL 9.5+ is required when using the `cluster` strategy with `postgres` as the backing Kong cluster data store. This requirement varies from the PostgreSQL 9.4+ requirement as described in the <a href="/install/source">Kong Community Edition documentation</a>.**

    **Note: The `dictionary_name` directive was added to prevent the usage of the `kong` shared dictionary, which could lead to `no memory` errors**

---

### Notes

An arbitrary number of limits/window sizes can be applied per plugin instance. This allows users to create multiple rate limiting windows (e.g., rate limit per minute and per hour, and/or per any arbitrary window size); because of limitation with Kong's plugin configuration interface, each *nth* limit will apply to each *nth* window size. For example:

```bash
$ curl -i -X POST http://kong:8001/apis/{api}/plugins \
  --data name=rate-limiting-advanced \
  --data config.limit=10,100 \
  --data config.window_size=60,3600 \
  --data config.sync_rate=10
```
This will apply rate limiting policies, one of which will trip when 10 hits have been counted in 60 seconds, or when 100 hits have been counted in 3600 seconds. For more information on how the rate limiting library works, please see: https://docs.konghq.com/enterprise/0.34-x/rate-limiting/
