---
#
#  WARNING: this file was auto-generated by a script.
#  DO NOT edit this file directly. Instead, send a pull request to change
#  https://github.com/Kong/kong-ee/tree/master/kong/pdk
#  or its associated files
#
title: kong.websocket.upstream
content_type: reference
pdk: true
toc: true
source_url: https://github.com/Kong/kong-ee/tree/master/kong/pdk/websocket/upstream.lua
enterprise: true
---

<!-- vale off -->

Upstream WebSocket PDK functions.

## kong.websocket.upstream.get_frame()

Retrieve the current frame.

 This returns the payload, type, and status code (for close frames) of
 the in-flight frame/message.

 This function is useful in contexts like the pre-function or post-function plugins
 where execution is sandboxed, and the caller has no access to these
 variables in the plugin handler scope.


**Phases**

* `ws_upstream_frame`

**Returns**

*  `string`:  The frame payload.

*  `string`:  The frame type (one of "text", "binary", "ping",
   "pong", or "close")

*  `number`:  The frame status code (only returned for close frames)


**Usage**

``` lua
local data, typ, status = kong.websocket.upstream.get_frame()
```



## kong.websocket.upstream.set_frame_data(data)

Set the current frame's payload.

 This allows the caller to overwrite the contents of the in-flight
 WebSocket frame before it is forwarded to the client.

 Plugin handlers that execute _after_ this has been called will see the
 updated version of the frame.


**Phases**

* `ws_upstream_frame`

**Parameters**

* **data** (`string`):  The desired frame payload

**Usage**

``` lua
kong.websocket.upstream.set_frame_data("updated!")
```



## kong.websocket.upstream.set_status(status)

Set the status code for a close frame.

 This allows the caller to overwrite the status code of close frame
 before it is forwarded to the client.

 See the [WebSocket RFC](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6455#section-7.4.1)
 for a list of valid status codes.

 Plugin handlers that execute _after_ this has been called will see the
 updated version of the status code.

 Calling this function when the in-flight frame is not a close frame
 will result in an exception.


**Parameters**

* **status** (`number`):  The desired status code

**Usage**

``` lua
-- overwrite the payload and status before forwarding
local data, typ, status = kong.websocket.upstream.get_frame()
if typ == "close" then
  kong.websocket.upstream.set_frame_data("goodbye!")
  kong.websocket.upstream.set_status(1000)
end
```



## kong.websocket.upstream.drop_frame()

Drop the current frame.

 This causes the in-flight frame to be dropped, meaning it will not be
 forwarded to the client.

 Plugin handlers that are set to execute _after_ this one will be
 skipped.

 Close frames cannot be dropped. Calling this function for a close
 frame will result in an exception.

**Usage**

``` lua
kong.websocket.upstream.drop_frame()
```



## kong.websocket.upstream.close([status[, message[, client_status[, client_payload]]]])

Close the WebSocket connection.

 Calling this function immediately sends a close frame to the client and
 the upstream before terminating the connection.

 The in-flight frame will not be forwarded to the client, and plugin
 handlers that are set to execute _after_ the current one will not be
 executed.


**Parameters**

* **status** (`number`, _optional_):  Status code of the upstream close frame
* **message** (`string`, _optional_):  Payload of the upstream close frame
* **client_status** (`number`, _optional_):  Status code of the client close frame
* **client_payload** (`string`, _optional_):  Payload of the client close frame

**Usage**

``` lua
kong.websocket.upstream.close(1009, "Invalid message",
                              1001, "Upstream is going away")
```





## kong.set_max_payload_size

Set the maximum allowed payload size for upstream frames.

 This limit is applied to all data frame types:
   * text
   * binary
   * continuation

 The limit is also assessed during aggregation of frames. For example,
 if the limit is 1024, and a upstream sends 3 continuation frames of size
 500 each, the third frame will exceed the limit.

 If a upstream sends a message that exceeds the limit, a close frame with
 status code `1009` is sent to the upstream, and the connection is closed.

 This limit does not apply to control frames (close/ping/pong).

* **size** (`integer`):  The limit (`0` resets to the default limit)

**Usage**

``` lua
-- set a max payload size of 1KB
kong.websocket.upstream.set_max_payload_size(1024)
-- Restore the default limit
kong.websocket.upstream.set_max_payload_size(0)
```
