annotations.md, before:

# Kong Ingress Controller annotations

Kong Ingress Controller uses some annotations to configure Ingress resources.

It supports the following annotations:

- [`kubernetes.io/ingress.class`](#kubernetesioingressclass)
- [`plugins.konghq.com`](#pluginskonghqcom)
- [`configuration.konghq.com`](#configurationkonghqcom)
- DEPRECATED [`<name>.plugin.konghq.com`](#deprecated-namepluginkonghqcom)

## `kubernetes.io/ingress.class`

If you have multiple Ingress controllers in a single cluster,
you can pick one by specifying the `ingress.class` annotation.
Following is an example of
creating an Ingress with an annotation:

```yaml
metadata:
  name: foo
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: "gce"
```

will target the GCE controller, forcing Kong Ingress Controller to ignore it.

On the other hand, an annotation such as

```yaml
metadata:
  name: foo
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: "nginx"
```

will target Kong Ingress controller, forcing the GCE controller to ignore it.

> Deploying multiple ingress controller and not specifying the
annotation will cause both controllers fighting to satisfy the Ingress
and will lead to unknown behaviour.

The ingress class used by Kong Ingress Controller is customizable as well
using the `--ingress-class` flag as follows:

```yaml
spec:
  template:
     spec:
       containers:
         - name: kong-ingress-internal-controller
           args:
             - /kong-ingress-controller
             - '--election-id=ingress-controller-leader-internal'
             - '--ingress-class=kong-internal'
```

This also helps users who wish to run
_multiple unrelated_ Kong ingress controllers
(e.g. one which serves public traffic, one which serves "internal" traffic).
Please note that the `--election-id` also needs to be different
for two unrelated Kong Ingress Controllers.

## `plugins.konghq.com`

`KongPlugin` custom resource can be configured using the
`plugins.konghq.com` annotation.
This annotation is available for Kong Ingress Controller versions >= 0.2.0.

Following is an example of how to use the annotation:

```yaml
plugins.konghq.com: high-rate-limit, docs-site-cors
```

Here, `high-rate-limit` and `docs-site-cors`
are the names of the KongPlugin resources which
should be to be applied to the Ingress rules defined in the
Ingress resource on which the annotation is applied.

This annotation can be applied to a Service Object in Kubernetes as well, which
will result in the plugin being executed at Service in Kong,
meaning the plugin will be
executed for every request that is proxied, no matter which Route it came from.

See [KongPlugin](#kongplugin) for examples of how to apply a plugin to service
or ingress.

## `configuration.konghq.com`

This annotation can associate a KongIngress custom resource with
an Ingress resource. Only a single KongIngress resource can be specified and
it will override the properties of Service, Route and Upstream objects that
are specified in the referenced `KongIngress` object.

## DEPRECATED `<name>.plugin.konghq.com`

Before version 0.2.0, a different annotation was used to configure plugins,
which is now deprecated.

The annotation can be used as follows:

```yaml
rate-limiting.plugin.konghq.com: |
  add-ratelimiting-to-route
```

The content of the annotation, in this case,
`add-ratelimiting-to-route` indicates the name of the
`KongPlugin` containing the configuration to be used.

**Rules:**

- the prefix must be a valid plugin name.
- the suffix must be `.plugin.konghq.com`
- the end of the line must be `|` if we want to add multiple plugins.
- each line should contain a valid `KongPlugin` in the Kubernetes cluster.

Setting annotations in Ingress rules set ups plugins on Routes entity in Kong.
Sometimes, there is a need to apply plugins on the Service entity in Kong,
meaning execute the plugin for any request being proxied to a service,
no matter which Route was taken.
The same annotations can be applied to Kubernetes service itself as well.


[kongplugin]: custom-resources.md#KongPlugin

Commit message:

feat: add support for ingress.class annotation on CRDs
For use cases where multiple Kong Ingress Controller are deployed, we
need a way to filter out consumers, credentials and plugins for multiple
ingress clusters.
Since, Ingress object already supports ingres.class annotation and we
dereive routes, services, upstreams, targets, certificates and SNIs from
it, it makes sense to use the same annotation for the remaining entities
in Kong as well.

annotations.md, after:

# Kong Ingress Controller annotations

Kong Ingress Controller uses some annotations to configure Ingress resources.

It supports the following annotations:

- [`kubernetes.io/ingress.class`](#kubernetesioingressclass)
- [`plugins.konghq.com`](#pluginskonghqcom)
- [`configuration.konghq.com`](#configurationkonghqcom)
- DEPRECATED [`<name>.plugin.konghq.com`](#deprecated-namepluginkonghqcom)

## `kubernetes.io/ingress.class`

If you have multiple Ingress controllers in a single cluster,
you can pick one by specifying the `ingress.class` annotation.
Following is an example of
creating an Ingress with an annotation:

```yaml
metadata:
  name: foo
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: "gce"
```

will target the GCE controller, forcing Kong Ingress Controller to ignore it.

On the other hand, an annotation such as

```yaml
metadata:
  name: foo
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: "nginx"
```

will target Kong Ingress controller, forcing the GCE controller to ignore it.

> Deploying multiple ingress controller and not specifying the
annotation will cause both controllers fighting to satisfy the Ingress
and will lead to unknown behaviour.

The ingress class used by Kong Ingress Controller is customizable as well
using the `--ingress-class` flag as follows:

```yaml
spec:
  template:
     spec:
       containers:
         - name: kong-ingress-internal-controller
           args:
             - /kong-ingress-controller
             - '--election-id=ingress-controller-leader-internal'
             - '--ingress-class=kong-internal'
```

### Multiple unrelated Kong Ingress Controllers

In some deployments, one might wish to use multiple Kong clusters in the same
k8s cluster
(e.g. one which serves public traffic, one which serves "internal" traffic).
For such deployments, please ensure that in addition to different
`ingress-class`, the `--election-id` also needs to be different.

In such deployments, `ingress.class` annotation can be used on the
following custom resources as well:
- KongPlugin: To configure (global) plugins only in one of the Kong clusters.
- KongConsumer: To create different consumers in different Kong clusters.
- KongCredential: To create associated credentials for consumers.

## `plugins.konghq.com`

`KongPlugin` custom resource can be configured using the
`plugins.konghq.com` annotation.
This annotation is available for Kong Ingress Controller versions >= 0.2.0.

Following is an example of how to use the annotation:

```yaml
plugins.konghq.com: high-rate-limit, docs-site-cors
```

Here, `high-rate-limit` and `docs-site-cors`
are the names of the KongPlugin resources which
should be to be applied to the Ingress rules defined in the
Ingress resource on which the annotation is applied.

This annotation can be applied to a Service Object in Kubernetes as well, which
will result in the plugin being executed at Service in Kong,
meaning the plugin will be
executed for every request that is proxied, no matter which Route it came from.

See [KongPlugin](#kongplugin) for examples of how to apply a plugin to service
or ingress.

## `configuration.konghq.com`

This annotation can associate a KongIngress custom resource with
an Ingress resource. Only a single KongIngress resource can be specified and
it will override the properties of Service, Route and Upstream objects that
are specified in the referenced `KongIngress` object.

## DEPRECATED `<name>.plugin.konghq.com`

Before version 0.2.0, a different annotation was used to configure plugins,
which is now deprecated.

The annotation can be used as follows:

```yaml
rate-limiting.plugin.konghq.com: |
  add-ratelimiting-to-route
```

The content of the annotation, in this case,
`add-ratelimiting-to-route` indicates the name of the
`KongPlugin` containing the configuration to be used.

**Rules:**

- the prefix must be a valid plugin name.
- the suffix must be `.plugin.konghq.com`
- the end of the line must be `|` if we want to add multiple plugins.
- each line should contain a valid `KongPlugin` in the Kubernetes cluster.

Setting annotations in Ingress rules set ups plugins on Routes entity in Kong.
Sometimes, there is a need to apply plugins on the Service entity in Kong,
meaning execute the plugin for any request being proxied to a service,
no matter which Route was taken.
The same annotations can be applied to Kubernetes service itself as well.


[kongplugin]: custom-resources.md#KongPlugin
