README.md, before:

# KONG Website

This repository is the source code for [Kong](https://github.com/Kong/kong)'s website. It is a [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) website hosted on GitHub pages.

## Requirements

- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
- [Bundler](http://bundler.io/)
- [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org) (>= 2.0, < 2.3)
- [Python](https://www.python.org) (>= 2.7.X, < 3)

## Install

>
```bash
gem install bundler
npm install
```

## Running locally

>
```bash
npm start
```

## Deploying

This will deploy to GitHub pages:

>
```bash
npm run deploy
```

## Search

We are using Algolia [docsearch](https://www.algolia.com/docsearch) for our CE
documentation search. The algolia index is maintained by Algolia through their
docsearch service. Their [scraper](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-scraper)
runs every 24 hours. The config used by the scraper is open source for
docs.konghq.com and can be found [here](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-configs/blob/master/configs/getkong.json).
To update the scraper config, you can submit a pull request to the config. To
test a config change locally, you will need to run their open source
[scraper](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-scraper) against your own
scraper to test out config changes.

## Generating the Plugin Development Kit documentation

- Have a local clone of Kong
- Install Luarocks (comes with Kong)
- Install `ldoc` using Luarocks: `luarocks install ldoc 1.4.6`
- In the Kong repository, checkout the desired branch/tag/release
- Run: `KONG_PATH=path/to/your/kong/folder KONG_VERSION=0.14.x gulp pdk-docs`
- This command will attempt to:
  * Obtain an updated list of modules from your local PDK and put it inside
    your nav file
  * Generate documentation for all the modules in your PDK (where possible) and
    put in a folder inside your version docs

## Documenting your contributed extension

We encourage developers to contribute their custom extensions back to the community, with documentation hosted on the Kong website for ready access.
In order to contribute docs for an extension:

1. Clone the Kong docs repository at https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com.
1. Create a publsher directory at`_app/_catalog/`, such as `_app/_catalog/your-last-name` or `_app/_catalog/company-name`.
1. Create a subdirectory for your plugin under this publisher directory, such as `_app/_catalog/your-name/your-extension`.
1. Copy the file at `_init/my-extension/index.md` to your new path.
1. Edit this new `index.md` template file as directed in the comments.

**Tip:** Refer to exiting extensions in filling out the template.

### Writing plugin documentation

Plugins are now documented as extensions under `app/plugins`.
They use a YAML-based system to generate many of the sections on each plugin page.
Please look at the existing plugins for examples. Fields are:

* `description` - text to be added in the Description section. Use YAML's
  [pipe notation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15540635/what-is-the-use-of-pipe-symbol-in-yaml)
  to write multi-paragraph text. Note that due to the order that data
  is generated, you may not use forward-references in links (e.g. use
  `[example](http://example.com)` and not `[example][example]` pointing to
  an index at the end).
* `desc` (string, required) - a short, one-line description of the extension.
* `type` (array, required) - what kind of extension this is: `plugin`, `enhancement` (developers portal), or `integration`; can list multiple
* `params`
  * `name` - name of the plugin in Kong (not always the same spelling as the page name)
  * `api_id` - boolean - whether this plugin can be applied to an API. Affects generation of examples and config table.
  * `route_id` - boolean - whether this plugin can be applied to a Route. Affects generation of examples and config table.
  * `service_id` - boolean - whether this plugin can be applied to a Service. Affects generation of examples and config table.
  * `consumer_id` - boolean - whether this plugin can be applied to a Consumer. Affects generation of examples and config table.
  * `config` - the configuration table. Each entry is a configuration item with the following fields:
    * `name` - the field name as read by Kong
    * `required` - `true` if required, `false` if optional, `semi` if semi-required (required depending on other fields)
    * `default` - the default value. If using Markdown (e.g. to make values appear type-written), wrap it in double-quotes
    * `value_in_examples` - if the field is to appear in examples, this is the value to use. A required field with no `value_in_examples` entry will resort to the one in `default`.
    * `description` - description of the field. Use YAML's pipe notation if writing longer Markdown text.

Commit message:

Changes based on Cooper's review

README.md, after:

# KONG Website

This repository is the source code for [Kong](https://github.com/Kong/kong)'s website. It is a [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) website hosted on GitHub pages.

## Requirements

- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
- [Bundler](http://bundler.io/)
- [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org) (>= 2.0, < 2.3)
- [Python](https://www.python.org) (>= 2.7.X, < 3)

## Install

>
```bash
gem install bundler
npm install
```

## Running locally

>
```bash
npm start
```

## Deploying

This will deploy to GitHub pages:

>
```bash
npm run deploy
```

## Search

We are using Algolia [docsearch](https://www.algolia.com/docsearch) for our CE
documentation search. The algolia index is maintained by Algolia through their
docsearch service. Their [scraper](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-scraper)
runs every 24 hours. The config used by the scraper is open source for
docs.konghq.com and can be found [here](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-configs/blob/master/configs/getkong.json).
To update the scraper config, you can submit a pull request to the config. To
test a config change locally, you will need to run their open source
[scraper](https://github.com/algolia/docsearch-scraper) against your own
scraper to test out config changes.

## Generating the Plugin Development Kit documentation

- Have a local clone of Kong
- Install Luarocks (comes with Kong)
- Install `ldoc` using Luarocks: `luarocks install ldoc 1.4.6`
- In the Kong repository, checkout the desired branch/tag/release
- Run: `KONG_PATH=path/to/your/kong/folder KONG_VERSION=0.14.x gulp pdk-docs`
- This command will attempt to:
  * Obtain an updated list of modules from your local PDK and put it inside
    your nav file
  * Generate documentation for all the modules in your PDK (where possible) and
    put in a folder inside your version docs

## Listing Your Extension in the Kong Catalog

We encourage developers to contribute their custom extensions back to the community, with documentation hosted on the Kong website for ready access.
In order to contribute docs for an extension:

1. Clone the Kong docs repository at https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com.
1. Create a publsher directory at`_app/_catalog/`, such as `_app/_catalog/your-name` or `_app/_catalog/company-name`.
1. Create a subdirectory for your plugin under this publisher directory, such as `_app/_catalog/your-name/your-extension`.
1. Copy the file at `_init/my-extension/index.md` to your new path.
1. Edit this new `index.md` template file as directed in the comments.

**Tip:** Refer to existing extensions in filling out the template.

### Writing plugin documentation

Plugins are now documented as extensions under `app/_catalog/` using the same conventions and format, with some additional parameters to fill out.
Please look at the existing plugins for examples.
Fields are:

* `description` - text to be added in the Description section. Use YAML's
  [pipe notation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15540635/what-is-the-use-of-pipe-symbol-in-yaml)
  to write multi-paragraph text. Note that due to the order that data
  is generated, you may not use forward-references in links (e.g. use
  `[example](http://example.com)` and not `[example][example]` pointing to
  an index at the end).
* `desc` (string, required) - a short, one-line description of the extension.
* `type` (array, required) - what kind of extension this is: `plugin`, `enhancement` (developers portal), or `integration`; can list multiple
* `params`
  * `name` - name of the plugin in Kong (not always the same spelling as the page name)
  * `api_id` - boolean - whether this plugin can be applied to an API. Affects generation of examples and config table.
  * `route_id` - boolean - whether this plugin can be applied to a Route. Affects generation of examples and config table.
  * `service_id` - boolean - whether this plugin can be applied to a Service. Affects generation of examples and config table.
  * `consumer_id` - boolean - whether this plugin can be applied to a Consumer. Affects generation of examples and config table.
  * `config` - the configuration table. Each entry is a configuration item with the following fields:
    * `name` - the field name as read by Kong
    * `required` - `true` if required, `false` if optional, `semi` if semi-required (required depending on other fields)
    * `default` - the default value. If using Markdown (e.g. to make values appear type-written), wrap it in double-quotes
    * `value_in_examples` - if the field is to appear in examples, this is the value to use. A required field with no `value_in_examples` entry will resort to the one in `default`.
    * `description` - description of the field. Use YAML's pipe notation if writing longer Markdown text.
