STYLEGUIDE.md, before:

# Documentation Style Guide

### Admin, admin
Use proper case for the Kong entity, lowercase for the RBAC Role

* Invite the Admin using the Organization tab
* The default Roles are `super-admin`, `admin`, and `read-only`

### Admin API 
Use proper case

### Admin GUI
Use *Kong Manager* instead

### American English
Use American English throughout Kong documentation

### ampersands
Always use “and” in content, only use “&” in titles with two items that have 
always had it or in product names

### API
All upper case; if referring to an entity, use Services and Routes instead

### Basic Auth, Basic Authentication
Use proper case, abbreviate if the context permits. Only use lowercase with a 
hyphen in code/config samples

* Bad: Options include LDAP Auth and basic auth.
* **_Good_: Options include LDAP Auth and Basic Auth.**
* *Bad*: Ensure that `admin_gui_auth` is set to basic auth.
* **_Good_: Ensure that `admin_gui_auth` is set to `basic-auth`.**
* **_Good_: Ensure that `admin_gui_auth = basic-auth`.**

### bold text
Use bold text for: 
* Visible GUI text, e.g., click the **Organization** tab.
* Usernames or Workspace names, e.g., **Gruce** or **Payments**
* Term lists, e.g.,
   * **bucanneers**: 17th-century French hunters who survived on the island of 
      Hispaniola by hunting wild cattle 
      and swine and smoking the meat in a wooden frame called a *boucane*, 
      whence *boucaniers*. Many became pirates after being driven off the 
      island by the Spanish.
   * **pirates**: people who commit unsanctioned theft by use of a vessel. 
   * **privateers**: civilian sailors licensed to attack an enemy of their 
      country at war and keep the plunder on condition of paying their
      government a certain percentage. Many would turn to piracy when war 
      officially ended.
* Emphasis when changing context for a command, like switching to a new 
  workspace or user, e.g.,
    > Log in as a **super admin** and move from the **default** 
    > workspace to **Payments**. Then check the **Admins** page to see if 
    > **Gruce** has accepted the invitation.

Do not use bold text for [headings](#heading) or anything that should be 
formatted with [in-line code](#in-line-code).

### click
Do not use “click on”; specify what is being clicked

* *Bad*: Click on **Admins**
* *Bad*: Look for one that says “Admins” and click
* **_Good_: Click the Admins button**


### cURL
Do not use CURL or curl

### e.g.
Indicates an inexhaustive list of examples, thus should not conclude with 
“etc.”; if offering a clarification, rather than an example, use “i.e.”. 
Following the Chicago Manual, follow each with a comma.

* *Bad*: Users may select a role, e.g. admin, read-only, etc.
* **_Good_: Users may select a role, e.g., admin, read-only.**
* *Bad*: The Role with the most RBAC permissions, e.g. the Super Admin.
* **_Good_: The Role with the most RBAC permissions, i.e., the Super Admin.**


### ellipses (...)
Indicates an incomplete thought, not a pause in a sentence; see em-dash

### em-dash (—)
Indicates a pause or emphatic break in a sentence; it's not a hyphen and has no 
surrounding space

* *Bad*: The admin role allows a user access to all endpoints... except for 
    RBAC permissions.
* *Bad*: The admin role allows a user access to all endpoints - except for RBAC 
    permissions.
* **_Good_: The admin role allows a user access to all endpoints—except for 
    RBAC permissions.**

### explanatory guides
For explanatory sections, specify the value of the content, then provide 
clarification and examples. Avoid starting sections with casual or redundant 
information, e.g., “In this section, you'll learn how to do X.” For example, 
in a section titled “Negotiation with Pirates”:

* *Bad*: In this section, you will learn the reason for negotiating with 
    pirates. Pirates may seem scary, but they can be reasoned with. Just match 
    their body language and offer them some rum. From there, negotiation is 
    self-explanatory. Now you know how to negotiate with pirates.
* **_Good_: Although pirates do not abide by the law, it is possible to come to 
    a reasonable compromise with them. Their goal is financial gain, not a 
    fight, and many of them were once merchant sailors. If it is not possible 
    to deter them, it is best to maintain a friendly disposition. For the 
    safety of your crew, keep their motivations in mind at all times during 
    negotiation.**


* *Bad*: In this section, you will learn the reason for negotiating with pirates. Pirates may seem scary, but they can be reasoned with. Just match their body language and offer them some rum. From there, negotiation is self-explanatory. Now you know how to negotiate with pirates.
* **_Good_: Although pirates do not abide by the law, it is possible to come to a reasonable compromise with them. Their goal is financial gain, not a fight, and many of them were once merchant sailors. If it is not possible to deter them, it is best to maintain a friendly disposition. For the safety of your crew, keep their motivations in mind at all times during negotiation.**

### how-to guides
Any section of documentation that is a guide involving multiple steps should have the following:

1. A title starting with “How to”
    * *Bad*: Creating New Admins in a Workspace
    * **_Good_: How to Create New Admins in a Workspace**
2. Numbered steps ranging from two to five; anything with more than five steps 
    can be broken down into separate guides
3. Oriented towards a goal, not teaching; each step should be minimal and 
    straightforward
    * detailed explanation may go in a separate section below the how-to guide, 
        but should not interrupt it
    * *important* tags that prevent an undesired outcome may go at the bottom 
        of a step, but should not be overused
4. Each step in a how-to guide should be identical to its TL;DR version—if any 
    content is inessential, it can go into a blog post or a more appropriate 
    section

### HTTPie
Do not use httpie

### i.e.
See e.g.; should only be used to specificy a case, not offer possible examples

### Kong
Use proper case

### Kong Admin
Use Admin instead

### Kong Community Edition, Kong CE
Use *Kong* instead

### Kong Dev Portal
Use *Dev Portal* in docs, not “Developer Portal’

### Kong Enterprise
Use proper case

### Kong Enterprise Edition, Kong EE
Use *Kong Enterprise* instead—except in pre-34 versions, e.g. “Kong EE 0.32”

### Kong Manager
Use proper case

### login, log in
Joined as a noun/modifier, separated as a phrasal verb; added prepositions are 
also separated

* To see the dashboard, *log in* as an admin. 
* *Log in to* the app.
* Reset your password at the *login* page.

### numbering
Spell out numbers less than 10

* *Bad*: There are 2 properties to set in the config.
* **_Good_: There are two properties to set in the config.**


### personal pronouns 
Avoid “you” and “we” in favor of the specific role performing the task or the 
imperative mood, but do not use the passive voice if “you” would be simpler.

* *Bad*: We will start by creating credentials for you.
* **_Good_: To start, create credentials for the super admin.**
* *Bad*: Log in with the password that was set during migrations.
* **_Good_: Log in with the password you set during migrations.**

### Plugin
Use proper case

### Role
Use proper case

### Role-Based Access Control, RBAC
Use proper case, introduce full phrase only once per section, use abbreviation 
after

### Routes
Use proper case

### serial comma 
For safety, clarity, and sanity

### setup, set up
Joined as a noun/modifier, separated as a phrasal verb

* A protocol is required to *set up* a service.
* To learn more, visit the account *setup* guide.  

### Services
Use proper case

### super admin
Use lowercase, hyphen as a compound modifier. Note that an [Admin](#Admin) is a 
Kong entity.

* Invite a *super admin*.
* An Admin account may invite others if it has *super-admin* permissions.

### text in buttons, links
Maintain the case, surround with double quotes

* Click “Admins” in the sidebar.

* Use the “Add Role” button.

### titles
Prepositions and articles are lower case, everything else is proper case

* Create RBAC Roles for an Admin in the New Workspace

### utilize
Has a specific meaning, “to use what is available”; it should not be used a 
fancy synonym for “use”

* *Bad*: The Admin may *utilize* the feature to observe traffic.
* **_Good_: The Admin may *use* the feature to observe traffic.**

### Vitals
Use proper case

### Workspace, Workspaces
Use proper case

Commit message:

docs(sg) add entry for code block

STYLEGUIDE.md, after:

# Documentation Style Guide

### Admin, admin
Use proper case for the Kong entity, lowercase for the RBAC Role

* Invite the Admin using the Organization tab
* The default Roles are `super-admin`, `admin`, and `read-only`

### Admin API 
Use proper case

### Admin GUI
Use *Kong Manager* instead

### American English
Use American English throughout Kong documentation

### ampersands
Always use “and” in content, only use “&” in titles with two items that have 
always had it or in product names

### API
All upper case; if referring to an entity, use Services and Routes instead

### Basic Auth, Basic Authentication
Use proper case, abbreviate if the context permits. Only use lowercase with a 
hyphen in code/config samples

* Bad: Options include LDAP Auth and basic auth.
* **_Good_: Options include LDAP Auth and Basic Auth.**
* *Bad*: Ensure that `admin_gui_auth` is set to basic auth.
* **_Good_: Ensure that `admin_gui_auth` is set to `basic-auth`.**
* **_Good_: Ensure that `admin_gui_auth = basic-auth`.**

### bold text
Use bold text for: 
* Visible GUI text, e.g., click the **Organization** tab.
* Usernames or Workspace names, e.g., **Gruce** or **Payments**
* Term lists, e.g.,
   * **bucanneers**: 17th-century French hunters who survived on the island of 
      Hispaniola by hunting wild cattle 
      and swine and smoking the meat in a wooden frame called a *boucane*, 
      whence *boucaniers*. Many became pirates after being driven off the 
      island by the Spanish.
   * **pirates**: people who commit unsanctioned theft by use of a vessel. 
   * **privateers**: civilian sailors licensed to attack an enemy of their 
      country at war and keep the plunder on condition of paying their
      government a certain percentage. Many would turn to piracy when war 
      officially ended.
* Emphasis when changing context for a command, like switching to a new 
  workspace or user, e.g.,
    > Log in as a **super admin** and move from the **default** 
    > workspace to **Payments**. Then check the **Admins** page to see if 
    > **Gruce** has accepted the invitation.

Do not use bold text for [headings](#heading) or anything that should be 
formatted with [in-line code](#in-line-code).

### click
Do not use “click on”; specify what is being clicked

* *Bad*: Click on **Admins**
* *Bad*: Look for one that says “Admins” and click
* **_Good_: Click the Admins button**

### code block
Use a code block to indicate multiple lines of code or an example command. For 
one line, see [in-line code](#in-line-code)

To write a code block, add 3 backticks (` ``` `) to the top and bottom of the 
block.

```
$ kong migrations bootstrap
```

If a specific language is used, specify it. Writing ` ```javascript ` at the 
top of this block highlights the syntax:

```javascript
let password = 'hunter2'
alert(password)
``` 

### cURL
Do not use CURL or curl

### e.g.
Indicates an inexhaustive list of examples, thus should not conclude with 
“etc.”; if offering a clarification, rather than an example, use “i.e.”. 
Following the Chicago Manual, follow each with a comma.

* *Bad*: Users may select a role, e.g. admin, read-only, etc.
* **_Good_: Users may select a role, e.g., admin, read-only.**
* *Bad*: The Role with the most RBAC permissions, e.g. the Super Admin.
* **_Good_: The Role with the most RBAC permissions, i.e., the Super Admin.**


### ellipses (...)
Indicates an incomplete thought, not a pause in a sentence; see em-dash

### em-dash (—)
Indicates a pause or emphatic break in a sentence; it's not a hyphen and has no 
surrounding space

* *Bad*: The admin role allows a user access to all endpoints... except for 
    RBAC permissions.
* *Bad*: The admin role allows a user access to all endpoints - except for RBAC 
    permissions.
* **_Good_: The admin role allows a user access to all endpoints—except for 
    RBAC permissions.**

### explanatory guides
For explanatory sections, specify the value of the content, then provide 
clarification and examples. Avoid starting sections with casual or redundant 
information, e.g., “In this section, you'll learn how to do X.” For example, 
in a section titled “Negotiation with Pirates”:

* *Bad*: In this section, you will learn the reason for negotiating with 
    pirates. Pirates may seem scary, but they can be reasoned with. Just match 
    their body language and offer them some rum. From there, negotiation is 
    self-explanatory. Now you know how to negotiate with pirates.
* **_Good_: Although pirates do not abide by the law, it is possible to come to 
    a reasonable compromise with them. Their goal is financial gain, not a 
    fight, and many of them were once merchant sailors. If it is not possible 
    to deter them, it is best to maintain a friendly disposition. For the 
    safety of your crew, keep their motivations in mind at all times during 
    negotiation.**


* *Bad*: In this section, you will learn the reason for negotiating with pirates. Pirates may seem scary, but they can be reasoned with. Just match their body language and offer them some rum. From there, negotiation is self-explanatory. Now you know how to negotiate with pirates.
* **_Good_: Although pirates do not abide by the law, it is possible to come to a reasonable compromise with them. Their goal is financial gain, not a fight, and many of them were once merchant sailors. If it is not possible to deter them, it is best to maintain a friendly disposition. For the safety of your crew, keep their motivations in mind at all times during negotiation.**

### how-to guides
Any section of documentation that is a guide involving multiple steps should have the following:

1. A title starting with “How to”
    * *Bad*: Creating New Admins in a Workspace
    * **_Good_: How to Create New Admins in a Workspace**
2. Numbered steps ranging from two to five; anything with more than five steps 
    can be broken down into separate guides
3. Oriented towards a goal, not teaching; each step should be minimal and 
    straightforward
    * detailed explanation may go in a separate section below the how-to guide, 
        but should not interrupt it
    * *important* tags that prevent an undesired outcome may go at the bottom 
        of a step, but should not be overused
4. Each step in a how-to guide should be identical to its TL;DR version—if any 
    content is inessential, it can go into a blog post or a more appropriate 
    section

### HTTPie
Do not use httpie

### i.e.
See e.g.; should only be used to specificy a case, not offer possible examples

### Kong
Use proper case

### Kong Admin
Use Admin instead

### Kong Community Edition, Kong CE
Use *Kong* instead

### Kong Dev Portal
Use *Dev Portal* in docs, not “Developer Portal’

### Kong Enterprise
Use proper case

### Kong Enterprise Edition, Kong EE
Use *Kong Enterprise* instead—except in pre-34 versions, e.g. “Kong EE 0.32”

### Kong Manager
Use proper case

### login, log in
Joined as a noun/modifier, separated as a phrasal verb; added prepositions are 
also separated

* To see the dashboard, *log in* as an admin. 
* *Log in to* the app.
* Reset your password at the *login* page.

### numbering
Spell out numbers less than 10

* *Bad*: There are 2 properties to set in the config.
* **_Good_: There are two properties to set in the config.**


### personal pronouns 
Avoid “you” and “we” in favor of the specific role performing the task or the 
imperative mood, but do not use the passive voice if “you” would be simpler.

* *Bad*: We will start by creating credentials for you.
* **_Good_: To start, create credentials for the super admin.**
* *Bad*: Log in with the password that was set during migrations.
* **_Good_: Log in with the password you set during migrations.**

### Plugin
Use proper case

### Role
Use proper case

### Role-Based Access Control, RBAC
Use proper case, introduce full phrase only once per section, use abbreviation 
after

### Routes
Use proper case

### serial comma 
For safety, clarity, and sanity

### setup, set up
Joined as a noun/modifier, separated as a phrasal verb

* A protocol is required to *set up* a service.
* To learn more, visit the account *setup* guide.  

### Services
Use proper case

### super admin
Use lowercase, hyphen as a compound modifier. Note that an [Admin](#Admin) is a 
Kong entity.

* Invite a *super admin*.
* An Admin account may invite others if it has *super-admin* permissions.

### text in buttons, links
Maintain the case, surround with double quotes

* Click “Admins” in the sidebar.

* Use the “Add Role” button.

### titles
Prepositions and articles are lower case, everything else is proper case

* Create RBAC Roles for an Admin in the New Workspace

### utilize
Has a specific meaning, “to use what is available”; it should not be used a 
fancy synonym for “use”

* *Bad*: The Admin may *utilize* the feature to observe traffic.
* **_Good_: The Admin may *use* the feature to observe traffic.**

### Vitals
Use proper case

### Workspace, Workspaces
Use proper case
