app/docs/enterprise/0.32-x/developer-portal/property-reference.md, before:

---
title: Configuration Property Reference for Kong Dev Portal
---

# Property Reference

This document describes the configuration directives for the Kong Developer
Portal.

## proxy_listen

**Default:** `0.0.0.0:8000, 0.0.0.0:8443 ssl`

**Description:**  
Comma-separated list of addresses and ports on
which the proxy server should listen.
The proxy server is the public entry-point of Kong,
which proxies traffic from your consumers to your
backend services. This value accepts IPv4, IPv6, and
hostnames.

**Example:**

```
proxy_listen =  0.0.0.0:8000, 0.0.0.0:8443 ssl
```


## portal

**Default:** `off`

**Description:**  
Should Kong enable the Kong Dev Portal?

If enabled, Kong will expose the Kong Dev Portal GUI, Kong Dev Portal API on the `portal_gui_listen` address, and management endpoints on the Admin API.

**Example:**

```
portal = on
```


## portal_gui_listen

**Default:** `0.0.0.0:8003, 0.0.0.0:8446 ssl`

**Description:**  
Comma-separated list of addresses on which Kong will
expose the Kong Dev Portal GUI. Suffixes can be
specified for each pair, similar to the `admin_listen` 
directive.

**Example:**

```
portal_gui_listen = 0.0.0.0:8003, 0.0.0.0:8446 ssl
```


## portal_gui_url

**Default:** `NONE` (auto generated)

**Description:**  
The URL on which your Kong Dev Portal is accessible. 

When not provided, The Kong Dev Portal GUI will attempt to determine the 
`port` and `host` based on the browsers `window.location`, this assumes that the
accessed `host` has exposed the ports defined on the `portal_gui_listener`
directive.

If the above does not reflect your setup, we highly recommend setting this value.

**Example:**

```
portal_gui_url = https://portal.domain.tld
```


## portal_gui_ssl_cert

**Default:** `NONE` (auto generated)

**Description:**  
The absolute path to the SSL certificate for `portal_gui_listen` values with SSL enabled.

**Example:**

```
portal_gui_ssl_cert = /path/to/portal_gui_ssl.cert
```


## portal_gui_ssl_cert_key

**Default:** `NONE` (auto-generated)

**Description:**  
The absolute path to the SSL key for `portal_gui_listen` values with SSL 
enabled.

**Example:**

```
portal_gui_ssl_key = /path/to/portal_gui_ssl.key
```


## portal_api_listen

**Default:** `0.0.0.0:8004, 0.0.0.0:8447 ssl`

**Description:**  
Comma-separated list of addresses on which Kong will
expose the Dev Portal API. Suffixes can be
specified for each pair, similarly to
the `admin_listen` directive.

```
portal_api_listen = 0.0.0.0:8004, 0.0.0.0:8447 ssl
```

## portal_api_url

**Default:** `NONE` (empty)

**Description:**  
The address on which your Kong Dev Portal API is accessible by Kong. You
should **only** set this value if your Kong Dev Portal API lives on a different node than your Kong Proxy.

When not provided, Kong will use the listeners defined on `portal_api_listen` as 
the value.

**Example:**

```
portal_api_url = https://portal-api.domain.tld
```


## portal_api_ssl_cert

**Default:** `NONE` (auto generated)

**Description:**  
Dev Portal API SSL Certificate.

The absolute path to the SSL certificate for
`portal_api_listen` values with SSL enabled.

**Example:**

```
portal_api_ssl_cert = /path/to/portal_api_ssl.cert
```


## portal_api_ssl_cert_key

**Default:** `NONE` (auto generated)

**Description:**  
Dev Portal API SSL Certificate Key.

The absolute path to the SSL key for
`portal_api_listen` values with SSL enabled.

**Example:**

```
portal_api_ssl_cert_key = /path/to/portal_api_ssl_cert.key
```


## portal_api_access_log

**Default:** `logs/portal_api_access.log`

**Description:**  
Location of log containing all calls made to the Portal API.

`portal_api_access.log` location can be absolute or relative. When using relative pathing, logs will be placed under
the `prefix` location.

Setting this value to `off` will disable logging
Portal API access logs.

**Example:**

```
portal_api_access_log = logs/portal_api_access.log
```


## portal_auto_approve

**Default:** `off`

**Description:**  
Dev Portal Auto Approve Access.

When set to `on`, a developer will
automatically be marked as `approved` after completing
Dev Portal registration. Access can still be revoked through the
Admin GUI or API.

**Example:**

```
portal_auto_approve = on
```


## portal_auth

**Default:** `NONE` (empty)

**Description:**  
Use `portal_auth` to specify the authentication plugin
to apply to your Dev Portal. Developers
will use the specified form of authentication
to request access, register, and login to your
Dev Portal.

**Example (Basic Auth):**

```
portal_auth = basic-auth
```


## portal_auth_config

**Default:** `NONE` (empty)

**Description:**  
Here you can specify authentication plugin configuration
via JSON Object format to be applied to your Developer
Portal auth plugin. For information about Plugin Configuration
consult the associated plugin documentation.

**Example (Basic Auth):**

```
portal_auth_conf = { "hide_credentials": true }
```

Commit message:

docs(ee portal) fixed proxy_url reference, updated link urls in networking

app/docs/enterprise/0.32-x/developer-portal/property-reference.md, after:

---
title: Configuration Property Reference for Kong Dev Portal
---

# Property Reference

This document describes the configuration directives for the Kong Developer
Portal.

## proxy_url

**Default:** `NONE` (auto generated)

**Description:**  
The URL on which Kong is accessible. This is used primarily by the Dev Portal. By default the Dev Portal will use the window request host and append the resolved listener port depending on the requested protocol.

**Example:**

```
proxy_listen = http://127.0.0.1:8000
```


## portal

**Default:** `off`

**Description:**  
Should Kong enable the Kong Dev Portal?

If enabled, Kong will expose the Kong Dev Portal GUI, Kong Dev Portal API on the `portal_gui_listen` address, and management endpoints on the Admin API.

**Example:**

```
portal = on
```


## portal_gui_listen

**Default:** `0.0.0.0:8003, 0.0.0.0:8446 ssl`

**Description:**  
Comma-separated list of addresses on which Kong will
expose the Kong Dev Portal GUI. Suffixes can be
specified for each pair, similar to the `admin_listen` 
directive.

**Example:**

```
portal_gui_listen = 0.0.0.0:8003, 0.0.0.0:8446 ssl
```


## portal_gui_url

**Default:** `NONE` (auto generated)

**Description:**  
The URL on which your Kong Dev Portal is accessible. 

When not provided, The Kong Dev Portal GUI will attempt to determine the 
`port` and `host` based on the browsers `window.location`, this assumes that the
accessed `host` has exposed the ports defined on the `portal_gui_listener`
directive.

If the above does not reflect your setup, we highly recommend setting this value.

**Example:**

```
portal_gui_url = https://portal.domain.tld
```


## portal_gui_ssl_cert

**Default:** `NONE` (auto generated)

**Description:**  
The absolute path to the SSL certificate for `portal_gui_listen` values with SSL enabled.

**Example:**

```
portal_gui_ssl_cert = /path/to/portal_gui_ssl.cert
```


## portal_gui_ssl_cert_key

**Default:** `NONE` (auto-generated)

**Description:**  
The absolute path to the SSL key for `portal_gui_listen` values with SSL 
enabled.

**Example:**

```
portal_gui_ssl_key = /path/to/portal_gui_ssl.key
```


## portal_api_listen

**Default:** `0.0.0.0:8004, 0.0.0.0:8447 ssl`

**Description:**  
Comma-separated list of addresses on which Kong will
expose the Dev Portal API. Suffixes can be
specified for each pair, similarly to
the `admin_listen` directive.

```
portal_api_listen = 0.0.0.0:8004, 0.0.0.0:8447 ssl
```

## portal_api_url

**Default:** `NONE` (empty)

**Description:**  
The address on which your Kong Dev Portal API is accessible by Kong. You
should **only** set this value if your Kong Dev Portal API lives on a different node than your Kong Proxy.

When not provided, Kong will use the listeners defined on `portal_api_listen` as 
the value.

**Example:**

```
portal_api_url = https://portal-api.domain.tld
```


## portal_api_ssl_cert

**Default:** `NONE` (auto generated)

**Description:**  
Dev Portal API SSL Certificate.

The absolute path to the SSL certificate for
`portal_api_listen` values with SSL enabled.

**Example:**

```
portal_api_ssl_cert = /path/to/portal_api_ssl.cert
```


## portal_api_ssl_cert_key

**Default:** `NONE` (auto generated)

**Description:**  
Dev Portal API SSL Certificate Key.

The absolute path to the SSL key for
`portal_api_listen` values with SSL enabled.

**Example:**

```
portal_api_ssl_cert_key = /path/to/portal_api_ssl_cert.key
```


## portal_api_access_log

**Default:** `logs/portal_api_access.log`

**Description:**  
Location of log containing all calls made to the Portal API.

`portal_api_access.log` location can be absolute or relative. When using relative pathing, logs will be placed under
the `prefix` location.

Setting this value to `off` will disable logging
Portal API access logs.

**Example:**

```
portal_api_access_log = logs/portal_api_access.log
```


## portal_auto_approve

**Default:** `off`

**Description:**  
Dev Portal Auto Approve Access.

When set to `on`, a developer will
automatically be marked as `approved` after completing
Dev Portal registration. Access can still be revoked through the
Admin GUI or API.

**Example:**

```
portal_auto_approve = on
```


## portal_auth

**Default:** `NONE` (empty)

**Description:**  
Use `portal_auth` to specify the authentication plugin
to apply to your Dev Portal. Developers
will use the specified form of authentication
to request access, register, and login to your
Dev Portal.

**Example (Basic Auth):**

```
portal_auth = basic-auth
```


## portal_auth_config

**Default:** `NONE` (empty)

**Description:**  
Here you can specify authentication plugin configuration
via JSON Object format to be applied to your Developer
Portal auth plugin. For information about Plugin Configuration
consult the associated plugin documentation.

**Example (Basic Auth):**

```
portal_auth_conf = { "hide_credentials": true }
```
