app/docs/enterprise/0.31-x/getting-started/adding-your-api.md, before:

---
title: Adding your API
---

# Adding your API

In this section, you'll be adding your API to Kong Enterprise Edition (EE).
This is the first
step to having Kong EE manage your API. For purposes of this Getting Started
guide, we suggest adding the [Mockbin API][mockbin] to Kong, as Mockbin is
helpful for learning how Kong EE proxies your API requests.

Kong exposes a [RESTful Admin API][API] on ports `:8001` and `:8444` and an
Admin GUI on ports `:8002` and `:8445` for managing the
configuration of your Kong instance or cluster. The Admin GUI makes
requests to the Admin API, and you can use either interface for configuring
and managing Kong EE.

## 1. Add your API using the Admin API or GUI

If you'd like to use the Admin API, issue the following cURL request to add 
your first API ([Mockbin][mockbin]) to Kong EE:

```bash
$ curl -i -X POST \
  --url http://localhost:8001/apis/ \
  --data 'name=example-api' \
  --data 'hosts=example.com' \
  --data 'upstream_url=http://mockbin.org'
```

Or, add your first API via the Admin GUI:

 <video controls loop>
  <source src="https://konghq.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/first-api-ee0.31.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video> 


## 2. Verify that your API has been added

You should see a similar response from that request:

```http
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Type: application/json
Connection: keep-alive

{
  "created_at": 1488830759000,
  "hosts": [
      "example.com"
  ],
  "http_if_terminated": false,
  "https_only": false,
  "id": "6378122c-a0a1-438d-a5c6-efabae9fb969",
  "name": "example-api",
  "preserve_host": false,
  "retries": 5,
  "strip_uri": true,
  "upstream_connect_timeout": 60000,
  "upstream_read_timeout": 60000,
  "upstream_send_timeout": 60000,
  "upstream_url": "http://mockbin.org"
}
```

Kong is now aware of your API and ready to proxy requests.

## 3. Forward your requests through Kong EE

Issue the following cURL request to verify that Kong is properly forwarding
requests to your API. Note that [by default][proxy-port] Kong handles proxy
requests on port `:8000`:

```bash
$ curl -i -X GET \
  --url http://localhost:8000/ \
  --header 'Host: example.com'
```

A successful response means Kong is now forwarding requests made to
`http://localhost:8000` to the `upstream_url` we configured in step #1,
and is forwarding the response back to us. Kong knows to do this through
the header defined in the above cURL request:

* Host: &lt;given host&gt;

---

## Next Steps

Now that you've added your API to Kong EE, let's learn how to enable plugins.

Go to [Enabling Plugins &rsaquo;][enabling-plugins]

[API]: /docs/latest/admin-api
[enabling-plugins]: /docs/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/getting-started/enabling-plugins
[proxy-port]: /docs/latest/configuration/#nginx-section
[mockbin]: https://mockbin.com/

Commit message:

fix(docs) clarify for Admin GUI

app/docs/enterprise/0.31-x/getting-started/adding-your-api.md, after:

---
title: Adding your API
---

# Adding your API

In this section, you'll be adding your API to Kong Enterprise Edition (EE).
This is the first
step to having Kong EE manage your API. For purposes of this Getting Started
guide, we suggest adding the [Mockbin API][mockbin] to Kong, as Mockbin is
helpful for learning how Kong EE proxies your API requests.

Kong exposes a [RESTful Admin API][API] on ports `:8001` and `:8444` and an
Admin GUI on ports `:8002` and `:8445` for managing the
configuration of your Kong instance or cluster. The Admin GUI makes
requests to the Admin API, and you can use either interface for configuring
and managing Kong EE.

## 1. Add your API using the Admin API or GUI

If you'd like to use the Admin API, issue the following cURL request to add 
your first API ([Mockbin][mockbin]) to Kong EE:

```bash
$ curl -i -X POST \
  --url http://localhost:8001/apis/ \
  --data 'name=example-api' \
  --data 'hosts=example.com' \
  --data 'upstream_url=http://mockbin.org'
```

Or, add your first API via the Admin GUI:

 <video controls loop>
  <source src="https://konghq.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/first-api-ee0.31.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video> 


## 2. Verify that your API has been added

You'll get a confirmation message in the Admin GUI, or if you used cURL you should see a 
response similar to the following:

```http
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
Content-Type: application/json
Connection: keep-alive

{
  "created_at": 1488830759000,
  "hosts": [
      "example.com"
  ],
  "http_if_terminated": false,
  "https_only": false,
  "id": "6378122c-a0a1-438d-a5c6-efabae9fb969",
  "name": "example-api",
  "preserve_host": false,
  "retries": 5,
  "strip_uri": true,
  "upstream_connect_timeout": 60000,
  "upstream_read_timeout": 60000,
  "upstream_send_timeout": 60000,
  "upstream_url": "http://mockbin.org"
}
```

Kong is now aware of your API and ready to proxy requests.

## 3. Forward your requests through Kong EE

Issue the following cURL request to verify that Kong is properly forwarding
requests to your API. Note that [by default][proxy-port] Kong handles proxy
requests on port `:8000`:

```bash
$ curl -i -X GET \
  --url http://localhost:8000/ \
  --header 'Host: example.com'
```

A successful response means Kong is now forwarding requests made to
`http://localhost:8000` to the `upstream_url` we configured in step #1,
and is forwarding the response back to us. Kong knows to do this through
the header defined in the above cURL request `Host: example.com`

---

## Next Steps

Now that you've added your API to Kong EE, let's learn how to enable plugins.

Go to [Enabling Plugins &rsaquo;][enabling-plugins]

[API]: /docs/latest/admin-api
[enabling-plugins]: /docs/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/getting-started/enabling-plugins
[proxy-port]: /docs/latest/configuration/#nginx-section
[mockbin]: https://mockbin.com/
