app/docs/0.12.x/getting-started/adding-consumers.md, before:

---
title: Adding Consumers
---

# Adding Consumers

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Before you start:</strong>
  <ol>
    <li>Make sure you've <a href="/install/">installed Kong</a> &mdash; It should only take a minute!</li>
    <li>Make sure you've <a href="/docs/{{page.kong_version}}/getting-started/quickstart">started Kong</a>.</li>
    <li>Also, make sure you've <a href="/docs/{{page.kong_version}}/getting-started/adding-your-api">added your API to Kong</a>.</li>
  </ol>
</div>

In the last section, we learned how to add plugins to Kong, in this section
we're going to learn how to add consumers to your Kong instances. Consumers are
associated to individuals using your API, and can be used for tracking, access
management, and more.

**Note:** This section assumes you have [enabled][enabling-plugins] the
[key-auth][key-auth] plugin. If you haven't, you can either [enable the
plugin][enabling-plugins] or skip steps two and three.

1. ### Create a Consumer through the RESTful API

    Lets create a user named `Jason` by issuing the following request:

    ```bash
    $ curl -i -X POST \
      --url http://localhost:8001/consumers/ \
      --data "username=Jason"
    ```

    You should see a response similar to the one below:

    ```http
    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Content-Type: application/json
    Connection: keep-alive

    {
      "username": "Jason",
      "created_at": 1428555626000,
      "id": "bbdf1c48-19dc-4ab7-cae0-ff4f59d87dc9"
    }
    ```

    Congratulations! You've just added your first consumer to Kong.

    **Note:** Kong also accepts a `custom_id` parameter when [creating
    consumers][API-consumers] to associate a consumer with your existing user
    database.

2. ### Provision key credentials for your Consumer

    Now, we can create a key for our recently created consumer `Jason` by
    issuing the following request:

    ```bash
    $ curl -i -X POST \
      --url http://localhost:8001/consumers/Jason/key-auth/ \
      --data 'key=ENTER_KEY_HERE'
    ```

3. ### Verify that your Consumer credentials are valid

    We can now issue the following request to verify that the credentials of
    our `Jason` Consumer is valid:

    ```bash
    $ curl -i -X GET \
      --url http://localhost:8000 \
      --header "Host: example.com" \
      --header "apikey: ENTER_KEY_HERE"
    ```

### Next Steps

Now that we've covered the basics of adding APIs, Consumers and enabling
Plugins, feel free to read more on Kong in one of the following documents:

- [Configuration file Reference][configuration]
- [CLI Reference][CLI]
- [Proxy Reference][proxy]
- [Admin API Reference][API]
- [Clustering Reference][cluster]

Questions? Issues? Contact us on one of the [Community Channels](/community)
for help!

[key-auth]: /plugins/key-authentication
[API-consumers]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api#create-consumer
[enabling-plugins]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/getting-started/enabling-plugins
[configuration]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/configuration
[CLI]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/cli
[proxy]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/proxy
[API]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api
[cluster]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/clustering

Commit message:

ADDED: Humor.
I'm probably not the first person to call consumers "Kongsumers" but oh well.

app/docs/0.12.x/getting-started/adding-consumers.md, after:

---
title: Adding Kongsumers
---

# Adding Kongsumers

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Before you start:</strong>
  <ol>
    <li>Make sure you've <a href="/install/">installed Kong</a> &mdash; It should only take a minute!</li>
    <li>Make sure you've <a href="/docs/{{page.kong_version}}/getting-started/quickstart">started Kong</a>.</li>
    <li>Also, make sure you've <a href="/docs/{{page.kong_version}}/getting-started/adding-your-api">added your API to Kong</a>.</li>
  </ol>
</div>

In the last section, we learned how to add plugins to Kong, in this section
we're going to learn how to add Kongsumers to your Kong instances. Kongsumers (consumers) are
associated to individuals using your API, and can be used for tracking, access
management, and more.

**Note:** This section assumes you have [enabled][enabling-plugins] the
[key-auth][key-auth] plugin. If you haven't, you can either [enable the
plugin][enabling-plugins] or skip steps two and three.

1. ### Create a Kongsumer through the RESTful API

    Lets create a user named `Jason` by issuing the following request:

    ```bash
    $ curl -i -X POST \
      --url http://localhost:8001/consumers/ \
      --data "username=Jason"
    ```

    You should see a response similar to the one below:

    ```http
    HTTP/1.1 201 Created
    Content-Type: application/json
    Connection: keep-alive

    {
      "username": "Jason",
      "created_at": 1428555626000,
      "id": "bbdf1c48-19dc-4ab7-cae0-ff4f59d87dc9"
    }
    ```

    Congratulations! You've just added your first Kongsumer to Kong.

    **Note:** Kong also accepts a `custom_id` parameter when [creating
    Kongsumers][API-consumers] to associate a consumer with your existing user
    database.

2. ### Provision key credentials for your Kongsumer

    Now, we can create a key for our recently created consumer `Jason` by
    issuing the following request:

    ```bash
    $ curl -i -X POST \
      --url http://localhost:8001/consumers/Jason/key-auth/ \
      --data 'key=ENTER_KEY_HERE'
    ```

3. ### Verify that your Kongsumer credentials are valid

    We can now issue the following request to verify that the credentials of
    our `Jason` Consumer is valid:

    ```bash
    $ curl -i -X GET \
      --url http://localhost:8000 \
      --header "Host: example.com" \
      --header "apikey: ENTER_KEY_HERE"
    ```

### Next Steps

Now that we've covered the basics of adding APIs, Kongsumers and enabling
Plugins, feel free to read more on Kong in one of the following documents:

- [Configuration file Reference][configuration]
- [CLI Reference][CLI]
- [Proxy Reference][proxy]
- [Admin API Reference][API]
- [Clustering Reference][cluster]

Questions? Issues? Contact us on one of the [Community Channels](/community)
for help!

[key-auth]: /plugins/key-authentication
[API-consumers]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api#create-consumer
[enabling-plugins]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/getting-started/enabling-plugins
[configuration]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/configuration
[CLI]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/cli
[proxy]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/proxy
[API]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api
[cluster]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/clustering
