---
title: Kong Gateway 3.2.x breaking changes
content_type: reference
book: breaking-changes
chapter: 4
---

Before upgrading, review any configuration or breaking changes in this version and prior versions that
affect your current installation.

You may need to adopt different upgrade paths depending on your deployment methods, set of features in use,
custom plugins, for example.

## Plugins

For breaking changes to plugins, see the [{{site.base_gateway}} Changelog](/gateway/changelog/) for your {{site.base_gateway}} version.

## PostgreSQL SSL version bump

The default PostgreSQL SSL version has been bumped to TLS 1.2. 

This causes changes to [`pg_ssl_version`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#postgres-settings) (set through `kong.conf`):
* The default value is now `tlsv1_2`.  
* `pg_ssl_version` previously accepted any string. In this version, it requires one of the following values: `tlsv1_1`, `tlsv1_2`, `tlsv1_3` or `any`.

This mirrors the setting `ssl_min_protocol_version` in PostgreSQL 12.x and onward. 
See the [PostgreSQL documentation](https://postgresqlco.nf/doc/en/param/ssl_min_protocol_version/)
for more information about that parameter.

To use the default setting in `kong.conf`, verify that your Postgres server supports TLS 1.2 or higher versions, or set the TLS version yourself. 

TLS versions lower than `tlsv1_2` are already deprecated and are considered insecure from PostgreSQL 12.x onward.
  
## Changes to the Kong-Debug header

Added the [`allow_debug_header`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#allow_debug_header) 
configuration property to `kong.conf` to constrain the `Kong-Debug` header for debugging. This option defaults to `off`.

If you were previously relying on the `Kong-Debug` header to provide debugging information, set `allow_debug_header: on` in `kong.conf` to continue doing so.

## JWT plugin
    
The [JWT plugin](/hub/kong-inc/jwt/) now denies any request that has different tokens in the JWT token search locations.

## Session library upgrade

The [`lua-resty-session`](https://github.com/bungle/lua-resty-session) library has been upgraded to v4.0.0. 
This version includes a full rewrite of the session library.

This upgrade affects the following: 
* [Session plugin](/hub/kong-inc/session/)
* [OpenID Connect plugin](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/)
* [SAML plugin](/hub/kong-inc/saml/)
* Any session configuration that uses the Session or OpenID Connect plugin in the background, including sessions for Kong Manager and Dev Portal.

All existing sessions are invalidated when upgrading to this version.
For sessions to work as expected in this version, all nodes must run {{site.base_gateway}} 3.2.x or later.
If multiple data planes run different versions, every time a user hits a different DP, 
even for the same endpoint, the previous session is invalidated.

For that reason, we recommend that during upgrades, proxy nodes with
mixed versions run for as little time as possible. During that time, the invalid sessions could cause 
failures and partial downtime. 

You can expect the following behavior:
* **After upgrading the control plane**: Existing Kong Manager and Dev Portal sessions will be invalidated and all users will be required to log back in.
* **After upgrading the data planes**: Existing proxy sessions will be invalidated. If you have an IdP configured, users will be required to log back into the IdP.

#### Session configuration parameter changes

The session library upgrade includes new, changed, and removed parameters. Here's how they function:

* The new parameter `idling_timeout`, which replaces `cookie_lifetime`, has a default value of 900. 
Unless configured differently, sessions expire after 900 seconds (15 minutes) of idling. 
* The new parameter `absolute_timeout` has a default value of 86400. 
Unless configured differently, sessions expire after 86400 seconds (24 hours).
* All renamed parameters will still work by their old names.
* Any removed parameters will not work anymore. They won't break your configuration, and sessions will 
continue to function, but they will not contribute anything to the configuration.

Existing session configurations will still work as configured with the old parameters. 

**Do not** change any parameters to the new ones until all CP and DP nodes are upgraded.

After you have upgraded all of your CP and DP nodes to 3.2 and ensured that your environment is stable, we 
recommend updating parameters to their new renamed versions, and cleaning out any removed parameters 
from session configuration to avoid unpredictable behavior.

#### Session plugin

The following parameters and the values that they accept have changed. 
For details on the new accepted values, see the [Session plugin](/hub/kong-inc/session/) documentation.

Old parameter name | New parameter name
-------------------|--------------------
`cookie_lifetime` | `rolling_timeout`
`cookie_idletime` | `idling_timeout`
`cookie_samesite` | `cookie_same_site`
`cookie_httponly` | `cookie_http_only`
`cookie_discard` | `stale_ttl`
`cookie_renew` | Removed, no replacement parameter. 
  

#### SAML plugin

The following parameters and the values that they accept have changed. 
For details on the new accepted values, see the [SAML plugin](/hub/kong-inc/saml/) documentation.

Old parameter name | New parameter name
-------------------|--------------------
`session_cookie_lifetime` | `session_rolling_timeout`
`session_cookie_idletime` | `session_idling_timeout`
`session_cookie_samesite` | `session_cookie_same_site` 
`session_cookie_httponly` | `session_cookie_http_only`
`session_memcache_prefix` | `session_memcached_prefix`
`session_memcache_socket` | `session_memcached_socket`
`session_memcache_host` | `session_memcached_host`
`session_memcache_port` | `session_memcached_port`
`session_redis_cluster_maxredirections` |  `session_redis_cluster_max_redirections`
`session_cookie_renew` | Removed, no replacement parameter. 
`session_cookie_maxsize` | Removed, no replacement parameter. 
`session_strategy` | Removed, no replacement parameter. 
`session_compressor` | Removed, no replacement parameter. 

#### OpenID Connect plugin

The following parameters and the values that they accept have changed. 
For details on the new accepted values, see the [OpenID Connect plugin](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/) documentation.

Old parameter name | New parameter name
-------------------|--------------------
`authorization_cookie_lifetime` | `authorization_rolling_timeout`
`authorization_cookie_samesite` | `authorization_cookie_same_site`
`authorization_cookie_httponly` | `authorization_cookie_http_only`
`session_cookie_lifetime` | `session_rolling_timeout`
`session_cookie_idletime` | `session_idling_timeout`
`session_cookie_samesite` | `session_cookie_same_site`
`session_cookie_httponly` | `session_cookie_http_only`
`session_memcache_prefix` | `session_memcached_prefix`
`session_memcache_socket` | `session_memcached_socket`
`session_memcache_host` | `session_memcached_host`
`session_memcache_port` | `session_memcached_port`
`session_redis_cluster_maxredirections` | `session_redis_cluster_max_redirections`
`session_cookie_renew` | Removed, no replacement parameter. 
`session_cookie_maxsize` | Removed, no replacement parameter. 
`session_strategy` | Removed, no replacement parameter. 
`session_compressor` | Removed, no replacement parameter. 

## Patches

### 3.2.2.4
#### Amazon Linux 2022 to 2023 rename

Amazon Linux 2022 artifacts are renamed to Amazon Linux 2023, based on AWS's own renaming.

#### Ubuntu 18.04 support removed 

Support for running {{site.base_gateway}} on Ubuntu 18.04 ("Bionic") is now deprecated,
as [Standard Support for Ubuntu 18.04 has ended as of June 2023](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases).
Starting with {{site.base_gateway}} 3.2.2.4, Kong is not building new Ubuntu 18.04
images or packages, and Kong will not test package installation on Ubuntu 18.04.