---
title: Kong Gateway 3.8.x breaking changes
content_type: reference
book: breaking-changes
chapter: 10
---

Before upgrading, review any configuration or breaking changes in this version and prior versions that
affect your current installation.

You may need to adopt different [upgrade paths](/gateway/{{page.release}}/upgrade/#guaranteed-upgrade-paths) depending on your 
deployment methods, set of features in use, or custom plugins, for example.

Review the [changelog](/gateway/changelog/#3800) for all the changes in this release.

## Breaking changes and deprecations

### `kong.logrotate` configuration file no longer overwritten during upgrade
The `kong.logrotate` configuration file will no longer be overwritten during upgrade.
When upgrading, set the environment variable `DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive` on Debian/Ubuntu to avoid any interactive prompts and enable fully automatic upgrades.

### `log_statistics` defaults to `false` for AI Proxy
A configuration validation was added to the [AI Proxy plugin](/hub/kong-inc/ai-proxy/) to prevent users from enabling `log_statistics` for
providers that don't support statistics. In addition, the default of `log_statistics` was changed from
`true` to `false`, and a database migration is added as well for disabling `log_statistics` if it
has already been enabled upon unsupported providers.

### Custom plugins that used shared Redis config

In 3.8.0.0, Kong has changed and refactored the shared Redis configuration that previously was imported by `require "kong.enterprise_edition.redis"`. If you created a custom plugin that is using this shared configuration or if you have a forked version of a plugin, like `rate-limiting-advanced`, then you might need to do additional steps before you can upgrade to the new version of this Redis config.

Out of the box, custom plugins should still work since the old shared configuration is still available. The new config adds the `cluster_max_redirections` option for Redis Cluster, and the `cluster_nodes` format and `sentinel_nodes` were changed. Other than that, the initialization step is no longer required.

#### Upgrade custom plugins using a shared Redis config

If your plugin is using a shared Redis config (for example, if you import `require "kong.enterprise_edition.redis"`) you must do the following:

1. Remove the `redis.init_conf(conf)` library initialization call.
    Where `redis` is `local redis = require "kong.enterprise_edition.redis"`.
1. Switch the imports of redis from `local redis = require "kong.enterprise_edition.redis"` to `local redis = require "kong.enterprise_edition.tools.redis.v2"`.

#### Upgrade custom plugins using the rate limiting library

If your plugin is using rate limiting library (as in you import `local ratelimiting = require("kong.tools.public.rate-limiting").new_instance("your-plugin-name")`) you must switch the imports of the following:

* **Shared Redis config:** Change `local redis = require "kong.enterprise_edition.redis"` to `local redis = require "kong.enterprise_edition.tools.redis.v2"`
* **Rate limiting library:** Change `local ratelimiting = require("kong.tools.public.rate-limiting").new_instance("your-plugin-name")` to `local ratelimiting = require("kong.tools.public.rate-limiting").new_instance("your-plugin-name", { redis_config_version = "v2" })`

### Deprecations

#### `sentinel_addresses` and `cluster_addresses` for Redis

The following plugins switched `cluster_addresses` to `cluster_nodes` and `sentinel_addresses` to `sentinel_nodes` for Redis configuration:

* [AI Rate Limiting Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/ai-rate-limiting-advanced/)
* [GraphQL Proxy Caching Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/graphql-proxy-cache-advanced/)
* [GraphQL Rate Limiting Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/graphql-rate-limiting-advanced/)
* [Proxy Caching Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/proxy-cache-advanced/)
* [Rate Limiting Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/)

These fields are converted automatically when you run `kong migrations up`. Also, any changes uploaded via decK or the Admin API using the old `cluster_addresses` and `sentinel_addresses` are respected and properly translated to the new fields.

Forked custom plugins aren't automatically migrated. For more information about how to migrate custom plugins, see [Custom plugins that used shared Redis config](#custom-plugins-that-used-shared-redis-config).