---
title: Configure a Data Plane Node
---

Set up your first data plane node through the
[{{site.konnect_short_name}} Gateway Manager](/konnect/gateway-manager).


Data plane nodes proxy service traffic. With
{{site.konnect_saas}} working as the control plane, the
data plane doesn't need a database to store configuration data. Instead,
configurations are stored in-memory on each data plane.

{:.note}
> **Note:** {{site.konnect_short_name}} does not host data plane nodes. You must install and host your own
data plane nodes.

## Prerequisites

* Your account has the **Organization Admin** role in
{{site.konnect_saas}}. If you created this {{site.konnect_short_name}} organization, your account
is part of the organization admin team by default.
* The quick setup script requires Docker and a Unix shell (for example, bash or
  zsh). 
* You also need the following platform-specific tools and permissions:
  * **All platforms:** [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) installed
  * **Linux:** User added to the [`docker` group](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/)
  * **Windows:** Docker Desktop [installed](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/#install-docker-desktop-on-windows) and [integrated with a WSL 2 backend](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/wsl/).

## Create a data plane node

Data plane nodes are {{site.base_gateway}} instances that are used to proxy service traffic. {{site.konnect_short_name}} provides you with a script that creates a Docker container running an instance of {{site.base_gateway}} and automatically connects it to your {{site.konnect_short_name}} account.

1. From the left navigation menu, open {% konnect_icon runtimes %} [**Gateway Manager**](https://cloud.konghq.com/gateway-manager).

1. Select the `default` control plane.

    Every account starts with one control plane named `default`. 

1. Click **New Data Plane Node**.

    You will see the latest {{site.base_gateway}} version and Docker pre-selected.

1. Click **Generate Script**.

1. Copy and run the script on any host you choose.

    This script creates a Docker container running the
    {{site.base_gateway}} instance and connects it to your
    {{site.konnect_saas}} account.

1. Once {{site.konnect_short_name}} detects the data plane node, click **Done** to go back to the data plane nodes page.

The data plane nodes table will now include
a new entry for the data plane and the tag in the **Sync Status** column should
say **In Sync**. If you have an Enterprise subscription, you can create additional custom control planes.

The default proxy URL for the data plane is `http://localhost:8000`. Take
note of this URL, as you'll need it later to access a service
implementation.

{:.note}
> **Note:** The certificates generated by {{site.konnect_short_name}} have a ten (10) year expiration
date by default. If you bring your own certificates, make sure to monitor the
expiration date. To rotate certificates, see
[Renew Certificates](/konnect/gateway-manager/data-plane-nodes/renew-certificates)

## Summary and next steps

In this step, you ran a script which set up a Docker container with a
{{site.base_gateway}} instance, adding your first data plane node to the Gateway Manager.

Next, [set up a your first Gateway service through {{site.konnect_saas}}](/konnect/getting-started/deploy-service/).
