---
title: Configure a Runtime
---

Set up your first runtime through the
[{{site.konnect_short_name}} Runtime Manager](/konnect/runtime-manager).

At this time, the only runtime type available is a {{site.base_gateway}}
data plane.

{{site.base_gateway}} data planes proxy service traffic. With
{{site.konnect_saas}} working as the control plane, a
runtime doesn't need a database to store configuration data. Instead,
configuration is stored in-memory on each node, and you can easily update
multiple runtimes from one {{site.konnect_short_name}} account with a few clicks.

{:.note}
> **Note:** Kong does not host runtimes. You must install and host your own
runtime instances.

## Prerequisites

* You have the **Organization Admin** role in
{{site.konnect_saas}}. If you created this {{site.konnect_short_name}} organization, your account
is part of the organization admin team by default.
* The quick setup script requires Docker and a Unix shell (for example, bash or
  zsh). Platform-specific tools and permissions:
  * **All platforms:** [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) installed
  * **Linux:** User added to the [`docker` group](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/)
  * **Windows:** Docker Desktop [installed](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/#install-docker-desktop-on-windows) and [integrated with a WSL 2 backend](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/wsl/).

## Set up a new runtime instance

{{site.base_gateway}} data planes proxy service traffic.

1. From the left navigation menu, open {% konnect_icon runtimes %} [**Runtime Manager**](https://cloud.konghq.com/runtime-manager).

1. Select the `default` runtime group.

    Every account starts with one group named `default`. If you have an
    Enterprise subscription, you can create additional custom groups.

1. Click **New Runtime Instance**.

     The page opens to a runtime configuration form with the Docker tab
     selected.

1. Click **Generate Script**.

1. Copy and run the script on any host you choose.

    This script creates a Docker container running a
    {{site.base_gateway}} instance and connects it to your
    {{site.konnect_saas}} account.

1. Once {{site.konnect_short_name}} detects your runtime instance, 
click **Done** to go back to the Runtime Instances page.

The runtime instances table will now include
a new entry for your instance and the tag in the **Sync Status** column should
say **In Sync**.

The default proxy URL for this runtime is `http://localhost:8000`. Take
note of this URL, as you'll need it later to access a service
implementation.

{:.note}
> **Note:** The certificates generated by {{site.konnect_short_name}} have a ten (10) year expiration
date by default. If you bring your own certificates, make sure to monitor the
expiration date. To rotate certificates, see
[Renew Certificates](/konnect/runtime-manager/runtime-instances/renew-certificates)

## Summary and next steps

In this step, you ran a script which set up a Docker container with a
{{site.base_gateway}} instance, adding your first runtime to the Runtime
Manager.

Next, [set up a your first Gateway service through {{site.konnect_saas}}](/konnect/getting-started/deploy-service/).
