---
#
#  WARNING: this file was auto-generated by a script.
#  DO NOT edit this file directly. Instead, send a pull request to change
#  https://github.com/Kong/kong/tree/master/autodoc/pdk/ldoc/ldoc.ltp
#  or its associated files
#
title: kong.ctx
pdk: true
toc: true
---

Contextual data for the current request.



## kong.ctx.shared

A table that has the same lifetime as the current request.  This table is shared
 between all plugins. It can be used to share data between several plugins in a
 given request.

 This table is only relevant in the context of a request and cannot be
 accessed from the top-level chunk of Lua modules. Instead, it can only be
 accessed in request phases, which are represented by the `rewrite`,
 `access`, `header_filter`, `response`, `body_filter`, `log`, and `preread` phases of
 the plugin interfaces. Accessing this table in those functions (and their
 callees) is fine.

 Values inserted in this table by a plugin are visible by all other
 plugins. Be careful when interacting with values in this table, as a naming
 conflict could result in the overwrite of data.


**Phases**

* rewrite, access, header_filter, response, body_filter, log, preread

**Usage**

``` lua
-- Two plugins A and B, and if plugin A has a higher priority than B's
-- (it executes before B):

-- plugin A handler.lua
function plugin_a_handler:access(conf)
  kong.ctx.shared.foo = "hello world"

  kong.ctx.shared.tab = {
    bar = "baz"
  }
end

-- plugin B handler.lua
function plugin_b_handler:access(conf)
  kong.log(kong.ctx.shared.foo) -- "hello world"
  kong.log(kong.ctx.shared.tab.bar) -- "baz"
end
```



## kong.ctx.plugin

A table that has the same lifetime as the current request.  Unlike
 `kong.ctx.shared`, this table is **not** shared between plugins.
 Instead, it is only visible for the current plugin instance.
 For example, if several instances of the Rate Limiting plugin
 are configured on different Services, each instance has its
 own table for every request.

 Because of its namespaced nature, this table is safer for a plugin to use
 than `kong.ctx.shared` since it avoids potential naming conflicts, which
 could lead to several plugins unknowingly overwriting each other's data.

 This table is only relevant in the context of a request and cannot be
 accessed from the top-level chunk of Lua modules. Instead, it can only be
 accessed in request phases, which are represented by the `rewrite`,
 `access`, `header_filter`, `body_filter`, `log`, and `preread` phases
 of the plugin interfaces. Accessing this table in those functions (and
 their callees) is fine.

 Values inserted in this table by a plugin are visible in successful
 phases of this plugin's instance only.


**Phases**

* rewrite, access, header_filter, response, body_filter, log, preread

**Usage**

``` lua
-- plugin handler.lua

-- For example, if a plugin wants to
-- save some value for post-processing during the `log` phase:

function plugin_handler:access(conf)
  kong.ctx.plugin.val_1 = "hello"
  kong.ctx.plugin.val_2 = "world"
end

function plugin_handler:log(conf)
  local value = kong.ctx.plugin.val_1 .. " " .. kong.ctx.plugin.val_2

  kong.log(value) -- "hello world"
end
```


