app/enterprise/0.33-x/installation/amazon-linux.md, before:

---
title: How to install Kong Enterprise and PostgreSQL onto Amazon Linux
---

## Installation Steps

```bash
$ sudo yum update
$ wget 'https://<BINTRAY_USER:<PASSWORD>@bintray.com/kong/kong-enterprise-edition-aws/rpm' -O bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo --auth-no-challenge
$ sudo mv bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo /etc/yum.repos.d/
$ sudo vi /etc/yum.repos.d/bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo
```

Ensure `baseurl` is correct

```bash
baseurl=https://<BINTRAY_USER>:<BINTRAY_API_KEY>@kong.bintray.com/kong-enterprise-edition-aws
```

```bash
$ sudo yum install kong-enterprise-edition
$ sudo yum install postgresql95 postgresql95-server
$ sudo service postgresql95 initdb
$ sudo service postgresql95 start
$ sudo -i -u postgres (puts you into new shell)
```

Create `kong` user

```bash
$ psql
> CREATE USER kong; CREATE DATABASE kong OWNER kong; ALTER USER kong WITH password 'kong';
> \q
```

```bash
# Change entries from ident to md5
$ sudo vi /var/lib/pgsql95/data/pg_hba.conf
$ sudo service postgresql95 restart

# add contents of license file
$ sudo vi /etc/kong/license.json

# Uncomment and add 'kong' to pg_password line
$ sudo vi [/path/to/kong.conf]

# Run migrations and start kong
$ kong migrations up [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong start [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
```

**Note:** You may use `kong.conf.default` or create [your own configuration](/0.13.x/configuration/#configuration-loading).

## Setup HTTPie to make commands easier

```bash
$ sudo yum install python-pip
$ sudo pip install --upgrade pip setuptools
$ sudo pip install --upgrade httpie
```

## Test your Kong installation

```bash
$ http :8001/apis name=demo uris=/ upstream_url=http://httpbin.org
$ http :8000/ip
```

## Setup Admin GUI

```bash
# Get the local IP address
$ ifconfig

# Uncomment the admin_listen setting, and update to something like this `admin_listen = 172.31.3.8:8001`
$ sudo vi [/path/to/kong.conf]

# Restart kong
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong stop
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong start [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
```

In a browser, load your server on port `8002`

Commit message:

docs(ee/install) clarify install centos/amazon linux install
Clarify how to obtain a Bintray username from an access key.

app/enterprise/0.33-x/installation/amazon-linux.md, after:

---
title: How to install Kong Enterprise and PostgreSQL onto Amazon Linux
---

## Installation Steps

```bash
$ sudo yum update
$ wget 'https://<BINTRAY_USER:<PASSWORD>@bintray.com/kong/kong-enterprise-edition-aws/rpm' -O bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo --auth-no-challenge
$ sudo mv bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo /etc/yum.repos.d/
$ sudo vi /etc/yum.repos.d/bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo
```

Ensure `baseurl` is correct

```bash
baseurl=https://<BINTRAY_USER>:<BINTRAY_API_KEY>@kong.bintray.com/kong-enterprise-edition-aws
```

```bash
$ sudo yum install kong-enterprise-edition
$ sudo yum install postgresql95 postgresql95-server
$ sudo service postgresql95 initdb
$ sudo service postgresql95 start
$ sudo -i -u postgres (puts you into new shell)
```

**Note**: `<USERNAME>` is obtained from your access key, by appending a `%40kong`
to it (encoded form of `@kong`). For example, if your access key is `bob-company`,
your username will be `bob-company%40kong`.

Create `kong` user

```bash
$ psql
> CREATE USER kong; CREATE DATABASE kong OWNER kong; ALTER USER kong WITH password 'kong';
> \q
```

```bash
# Change entries from ident to md5
$ sudo vi /var/lib/pgsql95/data/pg_hba.conf
$ sudo service postgresql95 restart

# add contents of license file
$ sudo vi /etc/kong/license.json

# Uncomment and add 'kong' to pg_password line
$ sudo vi [/path/to/kong.conf]

# Run migrations and start kong
$ kong migrations up [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong start [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
```

**Note:** You may use `kong.conf.default` or create [your own configuration](/0.13.x/configuration/#configuration-loading).

## Setup HTTPie to make commands easier

```bash
$ sudo yum install python-pip
$ sudo pip install --upgrade pip setuptools
$ sudo pip install --upgrade httpie
```

## Test your Kong installation

```bash
$ http :8001/apis name=demo uris=/ upstream_url=http://httpbin.org
$ http :8000/ip
```

## Setup Admin GUI

```bash
# Get the local IP address
$ ifconfig

# Uncomment the admin_listen setting, and update to something like this `admin_listen = 172.31.3.8:8001`
$ sudo vi [/path/to/kong.conf]

# Restart kong
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong stop
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong start [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
```

In a browser, load your server on port `8002`
