app/enterprise/0.33-x/installation/docker.md, before:

---
title: Installing Kong EE Docker Image
class: page-install-method
---

# Installing Kong EE from Docker Image

<img src="/assets/images/distributions/docker.svg"/>

A guide to installing Kong Enterprise Edition - and its license file - using
Docker. **Trial users should skip directly to step 4**.

1. Login to [bintray.com](https://bintray.com) - your credentials will have been
emailed to you by your Sales or Support contact

2. In the upper right corner, click Edit Profile, so you can retrieve your API
key, which you will use in step 3 - or click [here](https://bintray.com/profile/edit)

3. For **users with existing contracts**, add the Kong Docker repository and
pull the image:

    ```sh
    $ docker login -u <your_username_from_bintray> -p <your_apikey_from_bintray> kong-docker-kong-enterprise-edition-docker.bintray.io
    $ docker pull kong-docker-kong-enterprise-edition-docker.bintray.io/kong-enterprise-edition
    ```

4. For **trial users**, run the following, replacing `<your trial image URL>`
with the URL you received in your welcome email:

    ```sh
    curl -Lsv "<your trial image URL>" -o /tmp/kong-docker-ee.tar.gz
    docker load -i /tmp/kong-docker-ee.tar
    ```

You should now have your Kong Enterprise Free Trial image locally. Run
`docker images` to find it.

5. Tag it - for easier use in the commands below - as follows:

    ```
    docker tag <IMAGE ID> kong-ee
    ```

    Replace "IMAGE ID" with `7fc852f88079` if the Free Trial image is for Kong
    Enterprise 0.31-1 or `78ffc3bce991` if it is for 0.32. Recent Kong Enterprise
    Free Trial images (>= 0.33) come with a more intuitive name.

6. Generally, we'll be following the instructions [here](/install/docker/) with
some slight, but important, differences

7. For convenience, the commands will look something like this - **PostgreSQL 9.5
is required**:

    ```
    docker run -d --name kong-ee-database \
      -p 5432:5432 \
      -e "POSTGRES_USER=kong" \
      -e "POSTGRES_DB=kong" \
      postgres:9.5
    ```

8. To make the license data easier to handle, export it as a shell variable.
Please note that **your license contents will differ**! Users with Bintray
accounts should visit [https://bintray.com/kong/&lt;YOUR_REPO_NAME&gt;/license#files](https://bintray.com/kong/<YOUR_REPO_NAME>/license#files)
to retrieve their license. Trial users should download their license from their
welcome email. Once you have your license, you can set it in an environment variable:

    ```sh
    export KONG_LICENSE_DATA='{"license":{"signature":"LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tClZlcnNpb246IEdudVBHIHYyCgpvd0did012TXdDSFdzMTVuUWw3dHhLK01wOTJTR0tLWVc3UU16WTBTVTVNc2toSVREWk1OTFEzVExJek1MY3dTCjA0ek1UVk1OREEwc2pRM04wOHpNalZKVHpOTE1EWk9TVTFLTXpRMVRVNHpTRXMzTjA0d056VXdUTytKWUdNUTQKR05oWW1VQ21NWEJ4Q3NDc3lMQmorTVBmOFhyWmZkNkNqVnJidmkyLzZ6THhzcitBclZtcFZWdnN1K1NiKzFhbgozcjNCeUxCZzdZOVdFL2FYQXJ0NG5lcmVpa2tZS1ozMlNlbGQvMm5iYkRzcmdlWFQzek1BQUE9PQo9b1VnSgotLS0tLUVORCBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tCg=","payload":{"customer":"Test Company Inc","license_creation_date":"2017-11-08","product_subscription":"Kong Enterprise Edition","admin_seats":"5","support_plan":"None","license_expiration_date":"2017-11-10","license_key":"00141000017ODj3AAG_a1V41000004wT0OEAU"},"version":1}}'
    ```

9. Run Kong migrations:

    ```
    docker run --rm --link kong-ee-database:kong-ee-database \
      -e "KONG_DATABASE=postgres" -e "KONG_PG_HOST=kong-ee-database" \
      -e "KONG_CASSANDRA_CONTACT_POINTS=kong-ee-database" \
      -e "KONG_LICENSE_DATA=$KONG_LICENSE_DATA" \
      kong-ee kong migrations up
    ```

10. Start Kong:

    ```
    docker run -d --name kong-ee --link kong-ee-database:kong-ee-database \
      -e "KONG_DATABASE=postgres" \
      -e "KONG_PG_HOST=kong-ee-database" \
      -e "KONG_CASSANDRA_CONTACT_POINTS=kong-ee-database" \
      -e "KONG_PROXY_ACCESS_LOG=/dev/stdout" \
      -e "KONG_ADMIN_ACCESS_LOG=/dev/stdout" \
      -e "KONG_PROXY_ERROR_LOG=/dev/stderr" \
      -e "KONG_ADMIN_ERROR_LOG=/dev/stderr" \
      -e "KONG_VITALS=on" \
      -e "KONG_ADMIN_LISTEN=0.0.0.0:8001" \
      -e "KONG_PORTAL=on" \
      -e "KONG_PORTAL_GUI_URI=localhost:8003" \
      -e "KONG_LICENSE_DATA=$KONG_LICENSE_DATA" \
      -p 8000:8000 \
      -p 8443:8443 \
      -p 8001:8001 \
      -p 8444:8444 \
      -p 8002:8002 \
      -p 8445:8445 \
      -p 8003:8003 \
      -p 8004:8004 \
      kong-ee
    ```

11. Congratulations! You now have Kong Enterprise installed and running. Test
it by visiting the Admin GUI at http://localhost:8002. If you load the Dev Portal,
at http://localhost:8003, expect a blank page until you follow the instructions
[here](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/getting-started/).

## Enable RBAC

[Role-based Access Control (RBAC)](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/rbac/overview)
allows you to create multiple profiles of Kong users - e.g., "super admins",
"admins", "read only users", etc - and control which resources they have access
to. To enable it:

1. Create an initial RBAC super admin:

    ```
    curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/rbac/users/ -d name=admin -d user_token=12345
    curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/rbac/users/admin/roles -d roles=super-admin
    ```

2. Start a bash session on the container:

    ```
    docker exec -it kong-ee /bin/sh
    ```

3. Reload Kong with RBAC enabled:

    ```
    KONG_ENFORCE_RBAC=on kong reload
    ```

4. Confirm that your user token is working by passing the `Kong-Admin-Token`
header in requests:

    ```
    curl -X GET http://localhost:8001/status -H "Kong-Admin-Token: 12345"
    ```

    If you are able to access Kong without issues, you can add `KONG_ENFORCE_RBAC=on`
    to your initial container environment variables.

## FAQs

The Admin API only listens on the local interface by default. This was done as a
security enhancement. Note that we are overriding that in the above example with
`KONG_ADMIN_LISTEN=0.0.0.0:8001` because Docker container networking benefits from
more open settings and enables the Admin GUI & Dev Portal to talk with the Kong
Admin API.

Without a license properly referenced, you’ll get errors running migrations:

```
$ docker run -ti --rm ... kong migrations up
nginx: [alert] Error validating Kong license: license path environment variable not set
```

Also, without a license, you will get no output if you do a `docker run` in
"daemon mode" - the `-d` flag to `docker run`:

```
$ docker run -d ... kong start
26a995171e23e37f89a4263a10bb084120ab0dbed1aa11a71c888c8e0d74a0b6
```

When you check the container, it won’t be running. Doing a `docker logs` will
show you:

```
$ docker logs <container name>
nginx: [alert] Error validating Kong license: license path environment variable not set
```

As awareness, another error that can occur due to the vagaries of the interactions
between text editors and copy & paste changing straight quotes (" or ') into curly
ones (“ or ” or ’ or ‘) is:

```
nginx: [alert] Error validating Kong license: could not decode license json
```

Your license data must contain only straight quotes to be considered valid JSON.

Commit message:

Updated docker run
Removed reference to KONG_PORTAL_GUI_URI in docker run as we don't use that anymore in Kong EE and isn't needed as Kong now uses the window request by default. Also updated the Congratulations section to not assume the dev portal should be blank.

app/enterprise/0.33-x/installation/docker.md, after:

---
title: Installing Kong EE Docker Image
class: page-install-method
---

# Installing Kong EE from Docker Image

<img src="/assets/images/distributions/docker.svg"/>

A guide to installing Kong Enterprise Edition - and its license file - using
Docker. **Trial users should skip directly to step 4**.

1. Login to [bintray.com](https://bintray.com) - your credentials will have been
emailed to you by your Sales or Support contact

2. In the upper right corner, click Edit Profile, so you can retrieve your API
key, which you will use in step 3 - or click [here](https://bintray.com/profile/edit)

3. For **users with existing contracts**, add the Kong Docker repository and
pull the image:

    ```sh
    $ docker login -u <your_username_from_bintray> -p <your_apikey_from_bintray> kong-docker-kong-enterprise-edition-docker.bintray.io
    $ docker pull kong-docker-kong-enterprise-edition-docker.bintray.io/kong-enterprise-edition
    ```

4. For **trial users**, run the following, replacing `<your trial image URL>`
with the URL you received in your welcome email:

    ```sh
    curl -Lsv "<your trial image URL>" -o /tmp/kong-docker-ee.tar.gz
    docker load -i /tmp/kong-docker-ee.tar
    ```

You should now have your Kong Enterprise Free Trial image locally. Run
`docker images` to find it.

5. Tag it - for easier use in the commands below - as follows:

    ```
    docker tag <IMAGE ID> kong-ee
    ```

    Replace "IMAGE ID" with `7fc852f88079` if the Free Trial image is for Kong
    Enterprise 0.31-1 or `78ffc3bce991` if it is for 0.32. Recent Kong Enterprise
    Free Trial images (>= 0.33) come with a more intuitive name.

6. Generally, we'll be following the instructions [here](/install/docker/) with
some slight, but important, differences

7. For convenience, the commands will look something like this - **PostgreSQL 9.5
is required**:

    ```
    docker run -d --name kong-ee-database \
      -p 5432:5432 \
      -e "POSTGRES_USER=kong" \
      -e "POSTGRES_DB=kong" \
      postgres:9.5
    ```

8. To make the license data easier to handle, export it as a shell variable.
Please note that **your license contents will differ**! Users with Bintray
accounts should visit [https://bintray.com/kong/&lt;YOUR_REPO_NAME&gt;/license#files](https://bintray.com/kong/<YOUR_REPO_NAME>/license#files)
to retrieve their license. Trial users should download their license from their
welcome email. Once you have your license, you can set it in an environment variable:

    ```sh
    export KONG_LICENSE_DATA='{"license":{"signature":"LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tClZlcnNpb246IEdudVBHIHYyCgpvd0did012TXdDSFdzMTVuUWw3dHhLK01wOTJTR0tLWVc3UU16WTBTVTVNc2toSVREWk1OTFEzVExJek1MY3dTCjA0ek1UVk1OREEwc2pRM04wOHpNalZKVHpOTE1EWk9TVTFLTXpRMVRVNHpTRXMzTjA0d056VXdUTytKWUdNUTQKR05oWW1VQ21NWEJ4Q3NDc3lMQmorTVBmOFhyWmZkNkNqVnJidmkyLzZ6THhzcitBclZtcFZWdnN1K1NiKzFhbgozcjNCeUxCZzdZOVdFL2FYQXJ0NG5lcmVpa2tZS1ozMlNlbGQvMm5iYkRzcmdlWFQzek1BQUE9PQo9b1VnSgotLS0tLUVORCBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tCg=","payload":{"customer":"Test Company Inc","license_creation_date":"2017-11-08","product_subscription":"Kong Enterprise Edition","admin_seats":"5","support_plan":"None","license_expiration_date":"2017-11-10","license_key":"00141000017ODj3AAG_a1V41000004wT0OEAU"},"version":1}}'
    ```

9. Run Kong migrations:

    ```
    docker run --rm --link kong-ee-database:kong-ee-database \
      -e "KONG_DATABASE=postgres" -e "KONG_PG_HOST=kong-ee-database" \
      -e "KONG_CASSANDRA_CONTACT_POINTS=kong-ee-database" \
      -e "KONG_LICENSE_DATA=$KONG_LICENSE_DATA" \
      kong-ee kong migrations up
    ```

10. Start Kong:

    ```
    docker run -d --name kong-ee --link kong-ee-database:kong-ee-database \
      -e "KONG_DATABASE=postgres" \
      -e "KONG_PG_HOST=kong-ee-database" \
      -e "KONG_CASSANDRA_CONTACT_POINTS=kong-ee-database" \
      -e "KONG_PROXY_ACCESS_LOG=/dev/stdout" \
      -e "KONG_ADMIN_ACCESS_LOG=/dev/stdout" \
      -e "KONG_PROXY_ERROR_LOG=/dev/stderr" \
      -e "KONG_ADMIN_ERROR_LOG=/dev/stderr" \
      -e "KONG_VITALS=on" \
      -e "KONG_ADMIN_LISTEN=0.0.0.0:8001" \
      -e "KONG_PORTAL=on" \
      -e "KONG_LICENSE_DATA=$KONG_LICENSE_DATA" \
      -p 8000:8000 \
      -p 8443:8443 \
      -p 8001:8001 \
      -p 8444:8444 \
      -p 8002:8002 \
      -p 8445:8445 \
      -p 8003:8003 \
      -p 8004:8004 \
      kong-ee
    ```

11. Congratulations! You now have Kong Enterprise installed and running. Test
it by visiting the Admin GUI at http://localhost:8002 (replace localhost with your server IP or hostname when running Kong on 
a remote system). The Dev Portal should also be accessible
by visiting http://localhost:8003. 

## Enable RBAC

[Role-based Access Control (RBAC)](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/rbac/overview)
allows you to create multiple profiles of Kong users - e.g., "super admins",
"admins", "read only users", etc - and control which resources they have access
to. To enable it:

1. Create an initial RBAC super admin:

    ```
    curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/rbac/users/ -d name=admin -d user_token=12345
    curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/rbac/users/admin/roles -d roles=super-admin
    ```

2. Start a bash session on the container:

    ```
    docker exec -it kong-ee /bin/sh
    ```

3. Reload Kong with RBAC enabled:

    ```
    KONG_ENFORCE_RBAC=on kong reload
    ```

4. Confirm that your user token is working by passing the `Kong-Admin-Token`
header in requests:

    ```
    curl -X GET http://localhost:8001/status -H "Kong-Admin-Token: 12345"
    ```

    If you are able to access Kong without issues, you can add `KONG_ENFORCE_RBAC=on`
    to your initial container environment variables.

## FAQs

The Admin API only listens on the local interface by default. This was done as a
security enhancement. Note that we are overriding that in the above example with
`KONG_ADMIN_LISTEN=0.0.0.0:8001` because Docker container networking benefits from
more open settings and enables the Admin GUI & Dev Portal to talk with the Kong
Admin API.

Without a license properly referenced, you’ll get errors running migrations:

```
$ docker run -ti --rm ... kong migrations up
nginx: [alert] Error validating Kong license: license path environment variable not set
```

Also, without a license, you will get no output if you do a `docker run` in
"daemon mode" - the `-d` flag to `docker run`:

```
$ docker run -d ... kong start
26a995171e23e37f89a4263a10bb084120ab0dbed1aa11a71c888c8e0d74a0b6
```

When you check the container, it won’t be running. Doing a `docker logs` will
show you:

```
$ docker logs <container name>
nginx: [alert] Error validating Kong license: license path environment variable not set
```

As awareness, another error that can occur due to the vagaries of the interactions
between text editors and copy & paste changing straight quotes (" or ') into curly
ones (“ or ” or ’ or ‘) is:

```
nginx: [alert] Error validating Kong license: could not decode license json
```

Your license data must contain only straight quotes to be considered valid JSON.
