app/privacy/index.md, before:

---
title: Privacy
header_title: Privacy
header_caption: Privacy and cookie policy
---

# Overview

Kong provides this Privacy Policy to inform you of our policies and procedures regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information we receive from users of konghq.com (collectively, the &quot;Site&quot;) provide marketing and technical information, signup and account management capabilities for the Services as well as contact information for any inquiries related to the above topics, which are intended for current and prospective users of the Services.We know that you care about how information about you is used or shared and we respect and are committed to protecting your privacy. This Privacy Policy (&quot;Policy&quot;) explains how we collect, use, protect and disclose Personal and Anonymous Information from the visitors (the &quot;Visitors&quot;) of our Site as well as from End Users of thirdy party applications created on our Site.

# Personal Information Collection

In the course of using this Site, you may provide us with personally identifiable information. This refers to information about you that can be used to contact or identify you, and information on your use of and activities at our Site that may be connected with you (&quot;Personal Information&quot;). Personal Information that we collect may include, but is not limited to, your name, phone number, credit card or other billing information, email address and home and business postal addresses. Personal Information may also include information you supply to us concerning your preferences and interests expressed in the course of use of our Site.

Personal Information is or may be used for the following purposes: (i) to provide and improve our Site and Services (ii) to administer your use of our Site or Services, (iii) to enable you to enjoy and easily navigate the Site, (iv) to better understand your needs and interests, (v) to fulfill requests you may make, (vi) to personalize your experience, (vii) to provide or offer software updates and product announcements, and (viii) to provide you with further information and offers from us or third parties that we believe you may find useful or interesting, including newsletters, marketing or promotional materials and other information on services and products offered by us or third parties. If you decide at any time that you no longer wish to receive any such communications, please follow the &quot;unsubscribe&quot; instructions provided in any of the communications sent to you, or update your account settings information.

# Anonymous Information Collection

When you visit the Site, our servers automatically record information that your browser sends whenever you visit a website. This information may include, but is not limited to, your computer&#39;s Internet Protocol address, browser type, the web page you were visiting before you came to our Site and information you search for on our Site.

Like many websites, we may also use &quot;cookies&quot; to collect information. A cookie is a small data file that we transfer to your computer&#39;s hard disk for record-keeping purposes. We may use &quot;persistent cookies&quot; to save your registration ID and login password for future logins to the Site; and we use &quot;session ID cookies&quot; to enable certain features of the Site, to better understand how you interact with the Site and to monitor aggregate usage and web traffic routing on the Site. You can instruct your browser, by changing its options, to stop accepting cookies or to prompt you before accepting a cookie from the websites you visit. If you do not accept cookies, however, you may not be able to use all portions of the Site or all functionality of our Services.

# Confidentiality

We will keep any and all information collected at this Site strictly confidential and will not trade, sell, or otherwise convey collected information regarding its users or viewers to outside parties, except as stated in this Policy.

# Changing or Deleting Your Information

You may review, update, correct or delete the Personal Information provided in your registration or account profile by changing your account settings.

# Information Sharing

We may disclose aggregated information about the use of our Services to business partners, prospective investors, and others in order to demonstrate usage of the Services, spot industry trends, and to generate publicity for the Services. Any aggregated information shared in these contexts cannot be traced back to you personally.

Service Providers, Business Partners and Others We may employ third party companies and individuals to facilitate our service, to provide the service on our behalf, to perform Site-related services (including but not limited to data storage, maintenance services, database management, web analytics, payment processing, and improvement of the Site&#39;s features) or to assist us in analyzing how our Site and service are used. These third parties have access to your Personal Information only for purposes of performing these tasks on our behalf.

Compliance with Laws and Law Enforcement Kong cooperates with government and law enforcement officials and private parties to enforce and comply with the law. We will disclose any information about you to government or law enforcement officials or private parties as we, in our sole discretion, believe necessary or appropriate to respond to claims and legal process (including but not limited to subpoenas), to protect the property and rights of Kong or a third party, to protect the safety of the public or any person, or to prevent or stop any activity we may consider to be, or to pose a risk of being, illegal, unethical, inappropriate or legally actionable.

Business Transfers Kong may sell, transfer or otherwise share some or all of its assets, including your Personal Information, in connection with a merger, acquisition, reorganization or sale of assets or in the event of bankruptcy.

# Links to Third Party Websites and Services

We may provide links to other websites that are not owned or controlled by Kong. Often links to other Websites are provided solely as pointers to information on topics that may be useful to the users of our Site or Services. Please be aware that we are not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites. Your browsing and interaction on any other Website, including those which have a link on our Site or Services, is subject to that Website&#39;s own rules and policies. We encourage you to carefully review the privacy practices of any website that collects Personal Information from you.

# Security

Kong is very concerned with safeguarding your information. We employ reasonable measures designed to protect your information from unauthorized access, modification, destruction, or damage of data. These include internal reviews of our data collection, storage, and processing practices and security measures. Our servers are protected by firewalls and are physically located in secure data facilities to further increase security. Your information, applications and our server data are backed up.

While we have taken efforts to protect and secure your information, no data transmission over the Internet can be guaranteed to be totally secure and therefore we cannot ensure or warrant that your information and data will not be disclosed or accessed by accidental circumstances or by the unauthorized acts of others. In the unlikely event that Personal Information is compromised as a result of a breach of security, Kong will promptly notify those persons whose Personal Information has been compromised, in accordance with the notification procedures set forth in this Policy, or as otherwise required by applicable law.

# Children Policy

This Site is not directed to children under 18. We do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from children under 13. If a parent or guardian becomes aware that his or her child has provided us with Personal Information without their consent, he or she should contact us at [privacy@konghq.com](mailto:privacy@konghq.com). If we become aware that a child under 13 has provided us with Personal Information, we will delete such information from our files.

# Users around the Globe

Kong processes and stores Personal Information in the United States of America. If you are outside the United States, information you submit to us will be transferred out of your country and into the United States. When you agree to our Terms of Service, you agree to such transfers, and you warrant and represent that it is lawful for you to transfer the information into the United States.

# Changes to this Policy

Please check this Privacy Policy periodically to inform yourself of any changes. Although we reserve the right to modify or supplement this Privacy Policy, we will provide notice to you on this Web site of any major changes for at least 30 days following the change.

# Any Questions?

If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, please contact us at [privacy@konghq.com](mailto:privacy@konghq.com)

Commit message:

docs(terms and privacy) redirect and mark dead

app/privacy/index.md, after:

---
title: Privacy

redirect_to: https://konghq.com/privacy/


# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
#
# FIXME This file is dead code - it is no longer being rendered or utilized,
# and updates to this file will have no effect.
#
# The remaining contents of this file (below) will be deleted soon.
##
# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


---

# Overview

Kong provides this Privacy Policy to inform you of our policies and procedures regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information we receive from users of konghq.com (collectively, the &quot;Site&quot;) provide marketing and technical information, signup and account management capabilities for the Services as well as contact information for any inquiries related to the above topics, which are intended for current and prospective users of the Services.We know that you care about how information about you is used or shared and we respect and are committed to protecting your privacy. This Privacy Policy (&quot;Policy&quot;) explains how we collect, use, protect and disclose Personal and Anonymous Information from the visitors (the &quot;Visitors&quot;) of our Site as well as from End Users of thirdy party applications created on our Site.

# Personal Information Collection

In the course of using this Site, you may provide us with personally identifiable information. This refers to information about you that can be used to contact or identify you, and information on your use of and activities at our Site that may be connected with you (&quot;Personal Information&quot;). Personal Information that we collect may include, but is not limited to, your name, phone number, credit card or other billing information, email address and home and business postal addresses. Personal Information may also include information you supply to us concerning your preferences and interests expressed in the course of use of our Site.

Personal Information is or may be used for the following purposes: (i) to provide and improve our Site and Services (ii) to administer your use of our Site or Services, (iii) to enable you to enjoy and easily navigate the Site, (iv) to better understand your needs and interests, (v) to fulfill requests you may make, (vi) to personalize your experience, (vii) to provide or offer software updates and product announcements, and (viii) to provide you with further information and offers from us or third parties that we believe you may find useful or interesting, including newsletters, marketing or promotional materials and other information on services and products offered by us or third parties. If you decide at any time that you no longer wish to receive any such communications, please follow the &quot;unsubscribe&quot; instructions provided in any of the communications sent to you, or update your account settings information.

# Anonymous Information Collection

When you visit the Site, our servers automatically record information that your browser sends whenever you visit a website. This information may include, but is not limited to, your computer&#39;s Internet Protocol address, browser type, the web page you were visiting before you came to our Site and information you search for on our Site.

Like many websites, we may also use &quot;cookies&quot; to collect information. A cookie is a small data file that we transfer to your computer&#39;s hard disk for record-keeping purposes. We may use &quot;persistent cookies&quot; to save your registration ID and login password for future logins to the Site; and we use &quot;session ID cookies&quot; to enable certain features of the Site, to better understand how you interact with the Site and to monitor aggregate usage and web traffic routing on the Site. You can instruct your browser, by changing its options, to stop accepting cookies or to prompt you before accepting a cookie from the websites you visit. If you do not accept cookies, however, you may not be able to use all portions of the Site or all functionality of our Services.

# Confidentiality

We will keep any and all information collected at this Site strictly confidential and will not trade, sell, or otherwise convey collected information regarding its users or viewers to outside parties, except as stated in this Policy.

# Changing or Deleting Your Information

You may review, update, correct or delete the Personal Information provided in your registration or account profile by changing your account settings.

# Information Sharing

We may disclose aggregated information about the use of our Services to business partners, prospective investors, and others in order to demonstrate usage of the Services, spot industry trends, and to generate publicity for the Services. Any aggregated information shared in these contexts cannot be traced back to you personally.

Service Providers, Business Partners and Others We may employ third party companies and individuals to facilitate our service, to provide the service on our behalf, to perform Site-related services (including but not limited to data storage, maintenance services, database management, web analytics, payment processing, and improvement of the Site&#39;s features) or to assist us in analyzing how our Site and service are used. These third parties have access to your Personal Information only for purposes of performing these tasks on our behalf.

Compliance with Laws and Law Enforcement Kong cooperates with government and law enforcement officials and private parties to enforce and comply with the law. We will disclose any information about you to government or law enforcement officials or private parties as we, in our sole discretion, believe necessary or appropriate to respond to claims and legal process (including but not limited to subpoenas), to protect the property and rights of Kong or a third party, to protect the safety of the public or any person, or to prevent or stop any activity we may consider to be, or to pose a risk of being, illegal, unethical, inappropriate or legally actionable.

Business Transfers Kong may sell, transfer or otherwise share some or all of its assets, including your Personal Information, in connection with a merger, acquisition, reorganization or sale of assets or in the event of bankruptcy.

# Links to Third Party Websites and Services

We may provide links to other websites that are not owned or controlled by Kong. Often links to other Websites are provided solely as pointers to information on topics that may be useful to the users of our Site or Services. Please be aware that we are not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites. Your browsing and interaction on any other Website, including those which have a link on our Site or Services, is subject to that Website&#39;s own rules and policies. We encourage you to carefully review the privacy practices of any website that collects Personal Information from you.

# Security

Kong is very concerned with safeguarding your information. We employ reasonable measures designed to protect your information from unauthorized access, modification, destruction, or damage of data. These include internal reviews of our data collection, storage, and processing practices and security measures. Our servers are protected by firewalls and are physically located in secure data facilities to further increase security. Your information, applications and our server data are backed up.

While we have taken efforts to protect and secure your information, no data transmission over the Internet can be guaranteed to be totally secure and therefore we cannot ensure or warrant that your information and data will not be disclosed or accessed by accidental circumstances or by the unauthorized acts of others. In the unlikely event that Personal Information is compromised as a result of a breach of security, Kong will promptly notify those persons whose Personal Information has been compromised, in accordance with the notification procedures set forth in this Policy, or as otherwise required by applicable law.

# Children Policy

This Site is not directed to children under 18. We do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from children under 13. If a parent or guardian becomes aware that his or her child has provided us with Personal Information without their consent, he or she should contact us at [privacy@konghq.com](mailto:privacy@konghq.com). If we become aware that a child under 13 has provided us with Personal Information, we will delete such information from our files.

# Users around the Globe

Kong processes and stores Personal Information in the United States of America. If you are outside the United States, information you submit to us will be transferred out of your country and into the United States. When you agree to our Terms of Service, you agree to such transfers, and you warrant and represent that it is lawful for you to transfer the information into the United States.

# Changes to this Policy

Please check this Privacy Policy periodically to inform yourself of any changes. Although we reserve the right to modify or supplement this Privacy Policy, we will provide notice to you on this Web site of any major changes for at least 30 days following the change.

# Any Questions?

If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, please contact us at [privacy@konghq.com](mailto:privacy@konghq.com)
