app/docs/0.10.x/plugin-development/tests.md, before:

---
title: Plugin Development - Writing tests
book: plugin_dev
chapter: 9
---

# {{page.title}}

---

If you are serious about your plugins, you probably want to write tests for it. Unit testing Lua is easy, and [many testing frameworks](http://lua-users.org/wiki/UnitTesting) are available. However, you might also want to write integration tests. Again, Kong has your back.

---

### Write integration tests

The preferred testing framework for Kong is [busted](http://olivinelabs.com/busted/), though you are free to use another one if you wish.

Kong provides you with a helper to start and stop it from Lua code in your test suite: `spec.spec_helpers`. This helper also provides you with ways to insert fixtures in your datastore before running your tests, as well as dropping it, and various other helpers.

Assuming you have a configuration file obtained from running `make dev` in your Kong repository in your current folder, and that the `spec.spec_helpers` module is available in your `LUA_PATH`, you can use the following Lua code in busted to start and stop Kong:

```lua
local spec_helper = require "spec.spec_helpers"

setup(function()
  -- Run the migrations to prepare the database
  spec_helper.prepare_db()

  -- Insert some fixtures in the database before running your tests
  spec_helper.insert_fixtures {
    api = {
      {name = "fixture-api", request_host = "fixture.com", upstream_url = "http://mockbin.com"}
    },
    consumer = {
      {username = "fixture-consumer"}
    },
    plugin = {
      {name = "key-auth", config = {key_names = {"apikey"}}, __api = 1},
      {name = "key-auth", config = {key_names = {"apikey"}, hide_credentials = true}, __api = 2}
    }
  }

  -- start Kong with your local kong_TEST.yml configuration
  spec_helper.start_kong()
end)

teardown(function()
  -- stop Kong with your local kong_TEST.yml configuration
  spec_helper.stop_kong()
end)

describe("thing", function()
  it("should do thing", function()
    -- send requests through Kong
  end)
end)
```

> Reminder: With the kong_TEST.yml file, Kong is running with its proxy listening on port 8100 and Admin API on port 8101.

---

Next: [Distribute your plugin &rsaquo;]({{page.book.next}})

Commit message:

docs(plugin-dev) port 0.9 updates to 0.10

app/docs/0.10.x/plugin-development/tests.md, after:

---
title: Plugin Development - Writing tests
book: plugin_dev
chapter: 9
---

# {{page.title}}

---

If you are serious about your plugins, you probably want to write tests for it. Unit testing Lua is easy, and [many testing frameworks](http://lua-users.org/wiki/UnitTesting) are available. However, you might also want to write integration tests. Again, Kong has your back.

---

### Write integration tests

The preferred testing framework for Kong is [busted](http://olivinelabs.com/busted/) running with the [resty-cli](https://github.com/openresty/resty-cli) interpreter, though you are free to use another one if you wish. In the Kong repository, the busted executable can be found at `bin/busted`.

Kong provides you with a helper to start and stop it from Lua in your test suite: `spec.helpers`. This helper also provides you with ways to insert fixtures in your datastore before running your tests, as well as dropping it, and various other helpers.

If you are writing your plugin in your own repository, you will need to copy the following files until the Kong testing framework is released:

- `bin/busted`: the busted executable running with the resty-cli interpreter
- `spec/helpers.lua`: helper functions to start/stop Kong from busted
- `spec/kong_tests.conf`: a configuration file for your running your test Kong instances with the helpers module

Assuming that the `spec.helpers` module is available in your `LUA_PATH`, you can use the following Lua code in busted to start and stop Kong:

```lua
local helpers = require "spec.helpers"

setup(function()
  -- Run the migrations to prepare the database
  helpers.prepare_db()

  -- Insert some fixtures in the database before running your tests
  helpers.insert_fixtures {
    api = {
      {name = "fixture-api", request_host = "fixture.com", upstream_url = "http://mockbin.com"}
    },
    consumer = {
      {username = "fixture-consumer"}
    },
    plugin = {
      {name = "key-auth", config = {key_names = {"apikey"}}, __api = 1},
      {name = "key-auth", config = {key_names = {"apikey"}, hide_credentials = true}, __api = 2}
    }
  }

  -- start Kong with your testing Kong configuration (defined in "spec.helpers")
  helpers.start_kong()
end)

teardown(function()
  -- stop Kong with your testing Kong configuration (defined in "spec.helpers")
  helpers.stop_kong()
end)

describe("thing", function()
  it("should do thing", function()
    -- send requests through Kong
  end)
end)
```

> Reminder: With the test Kong configuration file, Kong is running with its proxy listening on port 8100 and Admin API on port 8101.

---

Next: [Distribute your plugin &rsaquo;]({{page.book.next}})
