---

name: Mutual TLS Authentication
publisher: Kong Inc.
version: 0.36-x

desc: Secure routes and services with client certificate and mutual TLS authentication
description: |
  Add mutual TLS authentication based on client-supplied certificate and configured trusted CA list. Automatically maps certificates to **Consumers** based on the common name field.

enterprise: true
type: plugin
categories:
  - authentication

kong_version_compatibility:
    community_edition:
      compatible:
    enterprise_edition:
      compatible:
        - 0.36-x

params:
  name: mtls-auth
  service_id: true
  route_id: true
  config:
    - name: anonymous
      required: false
      description: |
        An optional string (consumer UUID) value to use as an "anonymous" **Consumer** if authentication fails. If the request is left empty (which it is by default), it will fail with an authentication failure of either `HTTP 495` if the client presented a certificate that is not acceptable, or `HTTP 496` if the client failed to present certificate as requested. Please note that this value must refer to the **Consumer** `id` attribute, which is internal to Kong, and **not** its `custom_id`.
    - name: consumer_by
      required: false
      default: '`[ "username", "custom_id" ]`'
      description: |
        Whether to match the subject name of the client-supplied certificate against consumer's `username` and/or `custom_id` attribute. If set to `[]` (the empty array) then auto-matching is disabled.
    - name: ca_certificates
      required: true
      value_in_examples: '`[ { "id": "fdac360e-7b19-4ade-a553-6dd22937c82f" }, { "id": "aabc360e-7b19-5aab-1231-6da229a7b82f"} ]`'
      description: |
        List of "CA Certificates" object to use as Certificate Authorities (CA) when validating client certificate. At least one is required but can specify as many as needed. The value of this array comprises of primary keys for the "Certificate Authority" object.
    - name: cache_ttl
      default: "`60`"
      description: |
        Cache expiry time in seconds.
---

### Usage

In order to authenticate the **Consumer**, it must provide a valid certificate and
complete mutual TLS handshake with Kong.

The plugin will validate the certificate provided against the configured CA list based on the requested **Route** or **Service**.
If the certificate is not trusted or has expired, the response will be `HTTP 401` "TLS certificate failed verification."
If **Consumer** did not present a valid certificate (this includes requests not sent to the HTTPS port),
then the response will be `HTTP 401` "No required TLS certificate was sent". That exception is if the `config.anonymous`
option was configured on the plugin, in which case the anonymous **Consumer** will be used
and the request will be allowed to proceed.

### Adding certificate authorities

In order to use this plugin, you must add certificate authority certificates. These are stored in a separate ca-certificates store rather than the main certificates store, as they do not require private keys. To add one, obtain a PEM-encoded copy of your CA certificate and POST it to `/ca_certificates`:

```bash
$ curl -sX POST https://kong:8001/ca_certificates -F cert=@cert.pem
{
  "tags": null,
  "created_at": 1566597621,
  "cert": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\FullPEMOmittedForBrevity==\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n",
  "id": "322dce96-d434-4e0d-9038-311b3520f0a3"
}
```

The `id` value returned can now be used for mTLS plugin configurations or consumer mappings.

### Create manual mappings between certificate and Consumer object

Sometimes you may not wish to use automatic Consumer lookup or you have certificates
that contain a field value not associated with **Consumer** objects directly. In those
situations, you may manually assign one or more subject names to the **Consumer** object for
identifying the correct Consumer.

**Note:** "Subject names" refers to the certificate's Subject Alternative Names (SAN) or
"Common Name" (CN). CN will only be used if the SAN extension does not exist.

```bash
$ curl -X POST http://kong:8001/consumers/{consumer}/mtls-auth \
    -d 'subject_name=test@example.com'
HTTP/1.1 201 Created

{
    "consumer": { "id": "876bf719-8f18-4ce5-cc9f-5b5af6c36007" },
    "created_at": 1443371053000,
    "subject_name": "test@example.com"
}
```

* `consumer`: The `id` or `username` property of the [Consumer][consumer-object] entity to associate the credentials to.

form parameter                          | default | description
---                                     | ---     | ---
`subject_name`<br>*required*            |         | The Subject Alternative Name (SAN) or Common Name (CN) that should be mapped to `consumer` (in that order of lookup).
`ca_certificate`<br>*optional*          |         | UUID of the Certificate Authority (CA) that the certificate has to be verifiable by for the mapping to success. This is to help distinguish multiple certificates with the same subject name but are issued under different CAs. If empty, the subject name will match certificates issued by any CA under the corresponding `config.ca_certificates`.

### Matching behaviors

Once a client certificate has been verified as valid, the **Consumer** object will be determined in the following order:

1. Manual mappings with `subject_name` matching the certificate's SAN or CN (in that order) and `ca_certificate = <issuing authority of the client certificate>`
2. Manual mappings with `subject_name` matching the certificate's SAN or CN (in that order) and `ca_certificate = NULL`
3. If `config.consumer_by` is not null, Consumer with `username` and/or `id` matching the certificate's SAN or CN (in that order)
4. The `config.anonymous` consumer (if set)

**Note**: matching will stop as soon as the first successful match is found.

When a client has been authenticated, the plugin will append headers to the request before proxying it to the upstream service so that you can identify the **Consumer** in your code:

* `X-Consumer-ID`, the ID of the Consumer on Kong
* `X-Consumer-Custom-ID`, the `custom_id` of the Consumer (if set)
* `X-Consumer-Username`, the `username` of the Consumer (if set)
* `X-Credential-Username`, the `username` of the Credential (only if the consumer is not the 'anonymous' consumer)
* `X-Anonymous-Consumer` will be set to `true` if authentication failed and the 'anonymous' **Consumer** was set instead.


### Troubleshooting

When authentication fails, the client does not have access to any details explaining the 
failure. The security reason for this omission is to prevent malicious reconnaissance.
Instead, the details are recorded inside Kong's error logs under the `[mtls-auth]`
filter.


[configuration]: /gateway-oss/latest/configuration
[consumer-object]: /gateway-oss/latest/admin-api/#consumer-object
[acl-associating]: /plugins/acl/#associating-consumers

