app/enterprise/0.34-x/kong-manager/organization-management/managing-admins.md, before:

---
title: Managing Admins
book: admin_gui
chapter: 7
---

## How to Invite a New Admin in a Workspace

![Create an Admin in Kong Manager](https://konghq.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/admins2.png)

1. On the "Admins" page, to invite a new admin, click the "Create New Admin" 
button.

2. Ensure that the email address and username are matching. When a new Admin 
    receives an invitation, they will only be able to log in with that email 
    address. Assign the appropriate Role and click "Invite Admin" to send the 
    invitation.

    ![Create New Admin](https://konghq.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/km-name-admin.png)

3. On the "Admins" page, the new invitee will appear on the list with the 
    "invited" status. Once they accept the invitation, their status will 
    change to "accepted".

    ![Invited Admins](https://konghq.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/km-invited-admins.png)

4. The newly invited Admin will have the ability to set a password. If the 
    Admin forgets the password, it is possible to reset it through a recovery email.

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: By default, the registration link will expire after 259,200 
    seconds (3 days). This timeframe can be configured with the `kong.conf` 
    file in `admin_invitation_expiry`.
 
⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: If an email fails to send, either due to an incorrect email 
    address or an external error, it will be possible to resend an invitation.

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: If SMTP is not enabled or the invitation email fails to sent, 
    it is possible for the Super Admin to copy and provide a registration link 
    directly. See the next section.

## How to Copy and Send a Registration Link

If a mail server is not yet set up, it is still possible to invite Admins to 
register and log in. 

1. Invite an Admin as described in the section above. 

2. If the "View" link is clicked next to the invited Admin's name, a 
    `register_url` is displayed on the invitee's details page. 

    ![Registration URL](https://konghq.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/km-registration-url.png)

3. Copy and directly send this link to the invited Admin so that they may set 
    up their credentials and log in. 

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: If `admin_gui_auth` is `ldap-auth-advanced`, credentials are 
not stored in Kong, and the Admin will be directed to Login.

## How to Grant an Admin Access with LDAP

1. Pick a user in the LDAP Directory that will be the Super Admin. 

2. Change the Super Admin’s username in Kong by making a `PATCH` request to
`admins/kong_admin` and setting the value of `username` to the corresponding 
LDAP `attribute`. 

For example, if the LDAP user's attribute is `einstein`, 
the `PATCH` to `/admins/kong_admin` should have a `username` set to `einstein`.

3. Log in to Kong Manager using the LDAP credentials associated with the Super 
Admin.

4. Invite Admins from the "Admins" page in Kong Manager, ensuring that the 
`username` of each Admin is mapped to the `attribute` value set in the LDAP 
directory.

        ⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: To enable the Admins to log in, it is still necessary 
        to assign a Role to them.

5. Once an Admin has logged in successfully and accesses the Admin API using 
their LDAP credentials, they will be marked as “approved” on the "Admins" list 
in Kong Manager

        ⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: The new Admins will still receive an email, but all 
        credentials will be handled through the LDAP server, not Kong Manager 
        or the Admin API.

## Using the Organization Page to Manage Users

To view all of the current Workspaces and Roles, click the "Organization" link 
on the top navigation bar. 

From this page, it is possible to update every user's Role across any 
Workspace. From the "Roles" tab, it is also possible to update the permissions 
assigned to each Role.

Next: [Vitals &rsaquo;]({{page.book.next}})

Commit message:

docs(organization) invite admin inst.

app/enterprise/0.34-x/kong-manager/organization-management/managing-admins.md, after:

---
title: Managing Admins
book: admin_gui
chapter: 7
---

## How to Invite a New Admin from the Organization Page

Inviting a new Admin through the “Organization” page is similar to inviting an (Admin within a Workspace)[#how-to-invite-a-new-admin-in-a-workspace]. However, from the “Organization” page, Roles can be assigned to a new Admin for multiple Workspaces at once. The Super Admin can also view global roles across Workspaces from this page. 

1. On the “Organization” page, to invite a new Admin, click the “Invite User” button.

2. Ensure that the email address and username are matching. When a new Admin receives an invitation, they will only be able    to log in with that email address. Assign the appropriate Role and click “Invite User” to send the invitation.

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: Super Admins can invite users to multiple Workspaces, and assign them any Role available within Workspaces, including Roles that exist by default (e.g. super-admin, read-only) and Roles with customized permissions. 

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: The Super Admin can see all available roles across Workspaces on the “Roles” tab of the “Organization” page. 

3. On the “Organization” page, the new invitee will appear on the list with the “Invited” status. Once they accept the invitation, the user will be listed in the main “Users” list. 

4. The newly invited Admin will have the ability to set a password. If the Admin ever forgets the password, it is possible for them to reset it through a recovery email.

## How to Invite a New Admin in a Workspace

![Create an Admin in Kong Manager](https://konghq.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/admins2.png)

1. On the "Admins" page, to invite a new admin, click the "Create New Admin" 
button.

2. Ensure that the email address and username are matching. When a new Admin 
    receives an invitation, they will only be able to log in with that email 
    address. Assign the appropriate Role and click "Invite Admin" to send the 
    invitation.

    ![Create New Admin](https://konghq.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/km-name-admin.png)

3. On the "Admins" page, the new invitee will appear on the list with the 
    "invited" status. Once they accept the invitation, their status will 
    change to "accepted".

    ![Invited Admins](https://konghq.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/km-invited-admins.png)

4. The newly invited Admin will have the ability to set a password. If the 
    Admin forgets the password, it is possible to reset it through a recovery email.

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: By default, the registration link will expire after 259,200 
    seconds (3 days). This timeframe can be configured with the `kong.conf` 
    file in `admin_invitation_expiry`.
 
⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: If an email fails to send, either due to an incorrect email 
    address or an external error, it will be possible to resend an invitation.

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: If SMTP is not enabled or the invitation email fails to sent, 
    it is possible for the Super Admin to copy and provide a registration link 
    directly. See the next section.

## How to Copy and Send a Registration Link

If a mail server is not yet set up, it is still possible to invite Admins to 
register and log in. 

1. Invite an Admin as described in the section above. 

2. If the "View" link is clicked next to the invited Admin's name, a 
    `register_url` is displayed on the invitee's details page. 

    ![Registration URL](https://konghq.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/km-registration-url.png)

3. Copy and directly send this link to the invited Admin so that they may set 
    up their credentials and log in. 

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: If `admin_gui_auth` is `ldap-auth-advanced`, credentials are 
not stored in Kong, and the Admin will be directed to Login.

## How to Grant an Admin Access with LDAP

1. Pick a user in the LDAP Directory that will be the Super Admin. 

2. Change the Super Admin’s username in Kong by making a `PATCH` request to
`admins/kong_admin` and setting the value of `username` to the corresponding 
LDAP `attribute`. 

For example, if the LDAP user's attribute is `einstein`, 
the `PATCH` to `/admins/kong_admin` should have a `username` set to `einstein`.

3. Log in to Kong Manager using the LDAP credentials associated with the Super 
Admin.

4. Invite Admins from the "Admins" page in Kong Manager, ensuring that the 
`username` of each Admin is mapped to the `attribute` value set in the LDAP 
directory.

        ⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: To enable the Admins to log in, it is still necessary 
        to assign a Role to them.

5. Once an Admin has logged in successfully and accesses the Admin API using 
their LDAP credentials, they will be marked as “approved” on the "Admins" list 
in Kong Manager

        ⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: The new Admins will still receive an email, but all 
        credentials will be handled through the LDAP server, not Kong Manager 
        or the Admin API.

## Using the Organization Page to Manage Users

To view all of the current Workspaces and Roles, click the "Organization" link 
on the top navigation bar. 

From this page, it is possible to update every user's Role across any 
Workspace. From the "Roles" tab, it is also possible to update the permissions 
assigned to each Role.

Next: [Vitals &rsaquo;]({{page.book.next}})
