app/docs/0.14.x/plugin-development/admin-api.md, before:

---
title: Plugin Development - Extending the Admin API
book: plugin_dev
chapter: 8
---

# {{page.title}}

#### Module

```
kong.plugins.<plugin_name>.api
```

---

Kong can be configured using a REST interface referred to as the [Admin API].
Plugins can extend it by adding their own endpoints to accomodate custom
entities or other personalized management needs. A typical example of this is
the creation, retrieval, and deletion (commonly referred to as "CRUD
operations") of API keys.

The Admin API is a [Lapis](http://leafo.net/lapis/) application, and Kong's
level of abstraction makes it easy for you to add endpoints.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> This chapter assumes that you have a relative
  knowledge of <a href="http://leafo.net/lapis/">Lapis</a>.
</div>

---

### Adding endpoints to the Admin API

Kong will detect and load your endpoints if they are defined in a module named:

```
"kong.plugins.<plugin_name>.api"
```

This module is bound to return a table containing strings describing your
routes (See [Lapis routes & URL
Patterns](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/actions.html#routes--url-patterns))
and HTTP verbs they support. Routes are then assigned a simple handler
function.

This table is then fed to Lapis (See Lapis' [handling HTTP verbs
documentation](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/actions.html#handling-http-verbs)).
Example:

```lua
return {
  ["/my-plugin/new/get/endpoint"] = {
    GET = function(self, dao_factory, helpers)
      -- ...
    end
  }
}
```

The handler function takes three arguments, which are, in order:

- `self`: The request object. See [Lapis request
  object](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/actions.html#request-object)
- `dao_factory`: The DAO Factory. See the
  [datastore]({{page.book.chapters.access-the-datastore}}) chapter of this
  guide.
- `helpers`: A table containing a few helpers, described below.

In addition to the HTTPS verbs it supports, a route table can also contain two
other keys:

- **before**: as in
  [Lapis](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/actions.html#handling-http-verbs), a
  before_filter that runs before the executed verb action.
- **on_error**: a custom error handler function that overrides the one provided
  by Kong. See Lapis' [capturing recoverable
  errors](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/exception_handling.html#capturing-recoverable-errors)
  documentation.

---

### Helpers

When handling a request on the Admin API, there are times when you want to send
back responses and handle errors, to help you do so the third parameter
`helpers` is a table with the following properties:

- `responses`: a module with helper functions to send HTTP responses.
- `yield_error`: the
  [yield_error](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/exception_handling.html#capturing-recoverable-errors)
  function from Lapis. To call when your handler encounters an error (from a
  DAO, for example). Since all Kong errors are tables with context, it can send
  the appropriate response code depending on the error (Internal Server Error,
  Bad Request, etc...).

#### crud_helpers

Since most of the operations you will perform in your endpoints will be CRUD
operations, you can also use the `kong.api.crud_helpers` module. This module
provides you with helpers for any insert, retrieve, update or delete operations
and performs the necessary DAO operations and replies with the appropriate HTTP
status codes. It also provides you with functions to retrieve parameters from
the path, such as an API's name or id, or a Consumer's username or id.

Example:

```lua
local crud = require "kong.api.crud_helpers"

return {
  ["/consumers/:username_or_id/key-auth/"] = {
    before = function(self, dao_factory, helpers)
      crud.find_consumer_by_username_or_id(self, dao_factory, helpers)
      self.params.consumer_id = self.consumer.id
    end,

    GET = function(self, dao_factory, helpers)
      crud.paginated_set(self, dao_factory.keyauth_credentials)
    end,

    PUT = function(self, dao_factory)
      crud.put(self.params, dao_factory.keyauth_credentials)
    end,

    POST = function(self, dao_factory)
      crud.post(self.params, dao_factory.keyauth_credentials)
    end
  }
}
```

---

Next: [Write tests for your plugin]({{page.book.next}})

[Admin API]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/

Commit message:

docs(pdk) add links to key-auth plugin

app/docs/0.14.x/plugin-development/admin-api.md, after:

---
title: Plugin Development - Extending the Admin API
book: plugin_dev
chapter: 8
---

# {{page.title}}

#### Module

```
kong.plugins.<plugin_name>.api
```

---

Kong can be configured using a REST interface referred to as the [Admin API].
Plugins can extend it by adding their own endpoints to accomodate custom
entities or other personalized management needs. A typical example of this is
the creation, retrieval, and deletion (commonly referred to as "CRUD
operations") of API keys.

The Admin API is a [Lapis](http://leafo.net/lapis/) application, and Kong's
level of abstraction makes it easy for you to add endpoints.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> This chapter assumes that you have a relative
  knowledge of <a href="http://leafo.net/lapis/">Lapis</a>.
</div>

---

### Adding endpoints to the Admin API

Kong will detect and load your endpoints if they are defined in a module named:

```
"kong.plugins.<plugin_name>.api"
```

This module is bound to return a table containing strings describing your
routes (See [Lapis routes & URL
Patterns](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/actions.html#routes--url-patterns))
and HTTP verbs they support. Routes are then assigned a simple handler
function.

This table is then fed to Lapis (See Lapis' [handling HTTP verbs
documentation](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/actions.html#handling-http-verbs)).
Example:

```lua
return {
  ["/my-plugin/new/get/endpoint"] = {
    GET = function(self, dao_factory, helpers)
      -- ...
    end
  }
}
```

The handler function takes three arguments, which are, in order:

- `self`: The request object. See [Lapis request
  object](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/actions.html#request-object)
- `dao_factory`: The DAO Factory. See the
  [datastore]({{page.book.chapters.access-the-datastore}}) chapter of this
  guide.
- `helpers`: A table containing a few helpers, described below.

In addition to the HTTPS verbs it supports, a route table can also contain two
other keys:

- **before**: as in
  [Lapis](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/actions.html#handling-http-verbs), a
  before_filter that runs before the executed verb action.
- **on_error**: a custom error handler function that overrides the one provided
  by Kong. See Lapis' [capturing recoverable
  errors](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/exception_handling.html#capturing-recoverable-errors)
  documentation.

---

### Helpers

When handling a request on the Admin API, there are times when you want to send
back responses and handle errors, to help you do so the third parameter
`helpers` is a table with the following properties:

- `responses`: a module with helper functions to send HTTP responses.
- `yield_error`: the
  [yield_error](http://leafo.net/lapis/reference/exception_handling.html#capturing-recoverable-errors)
  function from Lapis. To call when your handler encounters an error (from a
  DAO, for example). Since all Kong errors are tables with context, it can send
  the appropriate response code depending on the error (Internal Server Error,
  Bad Request, etc...).

#### crud_helpers

Since most of the operations you will perform in your endpoints will be CRUD
operations, you can also use the `kong.api.crud_helpers` module. This module
provides you with helpers for any insert, retrieve, update or delete operations
and performs the necessary DAO operations and replies with the appropriate HTTP
status codes. It also provides you with functions to retrieve parameters from
the path, such as an API's name or id, or a Consumer's username or id.

Example:

```lua
local crud = require "kong.api.crud_helpers"

return {
  ["/consumers/:username_or_id/key-auth/"] = {
    before = function(self, dao_factory, helpers)
      crud.find_consumer_by_username_or_id(self, dao_factory, helpers)
      self.params.consumer_id = self.consumer.id
    end,

    GET = function(self, dao_factory, helpers)
      crud.paginated_set(self, dao_factory.keyauth_credentials)
    end,

    PUT = function(self, dao_factory)
      crud.put(self.params, dao_factory.keyauth_credentials)
    end,

    POST = function(self, dao_factory)
      crud.post(self.params, dao_factory.keyauth_credentials)
    end
  }
}
```

See the [complete Admin API of the Key-Auth plugin](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/master/kong/plugins/key-auth/api.lua)
for an extended version of this example.

---

Next: [Write tests for your plugin]({{page.book.next}})

[Admin API]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/
