app/docs/0.14.x/plugin-development/tests.md, before:

---
title: Plugin Development - Writing tests
book: plugin_dev
chapter: 9
---

# {{page.title}}

---

If you are serious about your plugins, you probably want to write tests for it.
Unit testing Lua is easy, and [many testing
frameworks](http://lua-users.org/wiki/UnitTesting) are available. However, you
might also want to write integration tests. Again, Kong has your back.

---

### Write integration tests

The preferred testing framework for Kong is
[busted](http://olivinelabs.com/busted/) running with the
[resty-cli](https://github.com/openresty/resty-cli) interpreter, though you are
free to use another one if you wish. In the Kong repository, the busted
executable can be found at `bin/busted`.

Kong provides you with a helper to start and stop it from Lua in your test
suite: `spec.helpers`. This helper also provides you with ways to insert
fixtures in your datastore before running your tests, as well as dropping it,
and various other helpers.

If you are writing your plugin in your own repository, you will need to copy
the following files until the Kong testing framework is released:

- `bin/busted`: the busted executable running with the resty-cli interpreter
- `spec/helpers.lua`: helper functions to start/stop Kong from busted
- `spec/kong_tests.conf`: a configuration file for your running your test Kong instances with the helpers module

Assuming that the `spec.helpers` module is available in your `LUA_PATH`, you
can use the following Lua code in busted to start and stop Kong:

```lua
local helpers = require "spec.helpers"

for _, strategy in helpers.each_strategy() do
  describe("my plugin", function()

    local bp = helpers.get_db_utils(strategy)

    setup(function()
      local service = bp.services:insert {
        name = "test-service",
        host = "httpbin.org"
      }

      bp.routes:insert({
        hosts = { "test.com" },
        service = { id = service.id }
      })

      -- start Kong with your testing Kong configuration (defined in "spec.helpers")
      assert(helpers.start_kong( { plugins = "bundled,my-plugin" }))

      admin_client = helpers.admin_client()
    end)

    teardown(function()
      if admin_client then
        admin_client:close()
      end

      helpers.stop_kong()
    end)

    before_each(function()
      proxy_client = helpers.proxy_client()
    end)

    after_each(function()
      if proxy_client then
        proxy_client:close()
      end
    end)

    describe("thing", function()
      it("should do thing", function()
        -- send requests through Kong
        local res = proxy_client:get("/get", {
          headers = {
            ["Host"] = "test.com"
          }
        })

        local body = assert.res_status(200, res)

        -- body is a string containing the response
      end)
    end)
  end)
end
```

> Reminder: With the test Kong configuration file, Kong is running with
its proxy listening on port 9000 (HTTP), 9443 (HTTPS)
and Admin API on port 9001.

---

Next: [Distribute your plugin &rsaquo;]({{page.book.next}})

Commit message:

docs(pdk) add links to key-auth plugin

app/docs/0.14.x/plugin-development/tests.md, after:

---
title: Plugin Development - Writing tests
book: plugin_dev
chapter: 9
---

# {{page.title}}

---

If you are serious about your plugins, you probably want to write tests for it.
Unit testing Lua is easy, and [many testing
frameworks](http://lua-users.org/wiki/UnitTesting) are available. However, you
might also want to write integration tests. Again, Kong has your back.

---

### Write integration tests

The preferred testing framework for Kong is
[busted](http://olivinelabs.com/busted/) running with the
[resty-cli](https://github.com/openresty/resty-cli) interpreter, though you are
free to use another one if you wish. In the Kong repository, the busted
executable can be found at `bin/busted`.

Kong provides you with a helper to start and stop it from Lua in your test
suite: `spec.helpers`. This helper also provides you with ways to insert
fixtures in your datastore before running your tests, as well as dropping it,
and various other helpers.

If you are writing your plugin in your own repository, you will need to copy
the following files until the Kong testing framework is released:

- `bin/busted`: the busted executable running with the resty-cli interpreter
- `spec/helpers.lua`: helper functions to start/stop Kong from busted
- `spec/kong_tests.conf`: a configuration file for your running your test Kong instances with the helpers module

Assuming that the `spec.helpers` module is available in your `LUA_PATH`, you
can use the following Lua code in busted to start and stop Kong:

```lua
local helpers = require "spec.helpers"

for _, strategy in helpers.each_strategy() do
  describe("my plugin", function()

    local bp = helpers.get_db_utils(strategy)

    setup(function()
      local service = bp.services:insert {
        name = "test-service",
        host = "httpbin.org"
      }

      bp.routes:insert({
        hosts = { "test.com" },
        service = { id = service.id }
      })

      -- start Kong with your testing Kong configuration (defined in "spec.helpers")
      assert(helpers.start_kong( { plugins = "bundled,my-plugin" }))

      admin_client = helpers.admin_client()
    end)

    teardown(function()
      if admin_client then
        admin_client:close()
      end

      helpers.stop_kong()
    end)

    before_each(function()
      proxy_client = helpers.proxy_client()
    end)

    after_each(function()
      if proxy_client then
        proxy_client:close()
      end
    end)

    describe("thing", function()
      it("should do thing", function()
        -- send requests through Kong
        local res = proxy_client:get("/get", {
          headers = {
            ["Host"] = "test.com"
          }
        })

        local body = assert.res_status(200, res)

        -- body is a string containing the response
      end)
    end)
  end)
end
```

> Reminder: With the test Kong configuration file, Kong is running with
its proxy listening on port 9000 (HTTP), 9443 (HTTPS)
and Admin API on port 9001.

If you cant to see a real-world example, give a look at the
[Key-Auth plugin specs](https://github.com/Kong/kong/tree/master/spec/03-plugins/10-key-auth)

---

Next: [Distribute your plugin &rsaquo;]({{page.book.next}})
