---
title: Zone ingress authentication
---

To obtain a configuration from the control plane,
a zone ingress must authenticate itself.
There are several authentication methods availble.

## Service Account Token

On Kubernetes, a zone-ingress proxy authenticates by leveraging [the ServiceAccountToken](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#service-account-automation) that is mounted in every pod.

## Zone ingress token

On Universal, a zone ingress proxy must be explicitly configured with a unique token that will be used to prove its identity.

The zone ingress token is a [JWT token](https://jwt.io) that contains:

- Zone in which the zone ingress operates
- Expiration date of the token (required, 10 years if not specified)

The zone ingress token is signed by a signing key that is autogenerated on first start of the control plane.
Tokens are never stored in the control plane, the only thing that is stored are signing keys that are used to verify if a token is valid.
The signing key is RSA256 encrypted.

You can check for the signing key:

```sh
kumactl get global-secrets
```

which returns something like:

```
NAME                               AGE
zone-ingress-token-signing-key-1   7s
```

### Global vs zone control plane

We can generate the zone ingress token on both global and zone control planes.
If the deployment pipeline is configured
to generate the zone ingress token before running the proxy,
it can rely on the zone CP.
This way the global CP is not a single point of failure.

### Usage

Generate the token with the REST API:

```bash
curl -XPOST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{"zone": "us-east", "validFor": "720h"}' \
  http://localhost:5681/tokens/zone-ingress
```

or with `kumactl`:

```bash
kumactl generate zone-ingress-token \
  --zone us-east \
  --valid-for 720h > /tmp/kuma-ingress-token
```

The token should be stored in a file and then passed when you start `kuma-dp`:

```bash
kuma-dp run \
  --proxy-type=ingress \
  --dataplane-file=ingress.yaml
  --cp-address=https://127.0.0.1:5678 \
  --dataplane-token-file=/tmp/kuma-ingress-token
```

You can also pass the token
by setting the `KUMA_DATAPLANE_RUNTIME_TOKEN` environment variable.

### Token Revocation

Kuma does not keep the list of issued tokens.
Whenever a single token is compromised,
we can add it to revocation list so that it becomes invalid.

Every token has its own ID
which is available in the JWT payload under the `jti` key.
You can extract this ID from the token using jwt.io
or the [`jwt-cli` tool](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jwt-cli).

Here is an example of a `jti`:

```
0e120ec9-6b42-495d-9758-07b59fe86fb9
```

Specify the list of revoked IDs separated by `,` and store it as `GlobalSecret` named `zone-ingress-token-revocations`:

{% tabs token-revocation useUrlFragment=false %}
{% tab token-revocation Kubernetes %}

```sh
REVOCATIONS=$(echo '0e120ec9-6b42-495d-9758-07b59fe86fb9' | base64) && echo "apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: zone-ingress-token-revocations
  namespace: kuma-system
data:
  value: $REVOCATIONS
type: system.kuma.io/global-secret" | kubectl apply -f -
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab token-revocation Universal %}

```sh
echo "
type: GlobalSecret
name: zone-ingress-token-revocations
data: {{ revocations }}" | kumactl apply --var revocations=$(echo '0e120ec9-6b42-495d-9758-07b59fe86fb9' | base64) -f -
```

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Signing key rotation

If the signing key is compromised, we must rotate it and all the tokens that were signed by it.

1. Generate a new signing key.
   The signing key is stored as a `GlobalSecret` with a name that looks like `zone-ingress-token-signing-key-{serialNumber}`.

   Make sure to generate the new signing key with a serial number greater than the serial number of the current signing key.

   {% capture tabs %}
   {% tabs key-rotation useUrlFragment=false %}
   {% tab key-rotation Kubernetes %}
   Check what the current highest serial number is:

   ```sh
   kubectl get secrets -n kuma-system --field-selector='type=system.kuma.io/global-secret'
   NAME                               TYPE                           DATA   AGE
   zone-ingress-token-signing-key-1   system.kuma.io/global-secret   1      25m
   ```

   In this case, the highest serial number is `1`. Generate a new signing key with a serial number of `2`:

   ```sh
   TOKEN="$(kumactl generate signing-key)" && echo "
   apiVersion: v1
   data:
     value: $TOKEN
   kind: Secret
   metadata:
     name: zone-ingress-token-signing-key-2
     namespace: kuma-system
   type: system.kuma.io/global-secret
   " | kubectl apply -f -
   ```

   {% endtab %}
   {% tab key-rotation Universal %}
   Check what the current highest serial number is:

   ```sh
   kumactl get global-secrets
   NAME                             AGE
   zone-ingress-token-signing-key-1   36m
   ```

   In this case, the highest serial number is `1`. Generate a new signing key with a serial number of `2`

   ```sh
   echo "
   type: GlobalSecret
   name: zone-ingress-token-signing-key-2
   data: {{ key }}" | kumactl apply --var key=$(kumactl generate signing-key) -f -
   ```

   {% endtab %}
   {% endtabs %}
   {% endcapture %}
   {{ tabs | indent }}

2. Create new zone ingress tokens.
   These tokens are automatically created
   with the signing key that’s assigned the highest serial number.
   In this case, that will be the new signing key.
   At this point, tokens signed by either the new or old signing key are valid.

3. Remove the old signing key:
   {% capture tabs %}
   {% tabs signing-key useUrlFragment=false %}
   {% tab signing-key Kubernetes %}
   ```sh
   kubectl delete secret zone-ingress-token-signing-key-1 -n kuma-system
   ```
   {% endtab %}
   {% tab signing-key Universal %}
   ```sh
   kumactl delete global-secret zone-ingress-token-signing-key-1
   ```
   {% endtab %}
   {% endtabs %}
   {% endcapture %}
   {{ tabs | indent }}
   All new connections to the control plane now require tokens signed with the new signing key.

## None

You can turn off authentication by setting `KUMA_DP_SERVER_AUTH_TYPE` to `none`.

{% warning %}
You should not disable authentication between the control plane and the data plane proxies in production.
Disabling authentication means that any data plane proxy can impersonate any service.
{% endwarning %}
