app/enterprise/0.33-x/admin-gui/configuration/authentication.md, before:

---
title: Authenticating the Admin GUI
book: admin_gui
chapter: 3
---

# {{page.title}}

- [Enable Authentication](#enable-authentication)
- [Add a Credential](#add-a-credential)
- [Example configurations](#example-configurations)
  - [Key Authentication](#key-authentication)
  - [LDAP Authentication](#ldap-authentication)
  - [Basic Authentication](#basic-authentication)
- [Logging In](#logging-in)
- [Logging Out](#logging-out)
- [How Authentication is Stored in Local Storage](#how-authentication-is-stored-in-local-storage)

> Before you begin, make sure you have gone through the [Getting Started with the Admin GUI](https://getkong.org/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-gui/configuration/getting-started)

## Enable Authentication

First, we will configure the Admin GUI using [Key Authentication](https://getkong.org/plugins/key-authentication). First, we should add an Administrator entity using the Admin API:

```bash
curl -X POST http://kong:8001/admins/    \
    --data "username=<USERNAME>"         \
    --data "custom_id=<CUSTOM_ID>"
HTTP/1.1 201 Created

{
  "rbac_user": {
    "comment": "User generated on creation of Admin.",
    "user_token": "a3cebf9e-820d-4543-b760-2b6986e3bb9d",
    "id": "1e24c54d-e575-4910-8a58-4d5f7203be08",
    "name": "user-<USERNAME>-<CUSTOM_ID>",
    "created_at": 1530577554000,
    "enabled": true
  },
  "consumer": {
    "custom_id": "<CUSTOM_ID>",
    "created_at": 1530577554000,
    "id": "1f8c8ce4-7625-4fa4-8904-6a2a507ffa93",
    "status": 0,
    "username": "<USERNAME>",
    "type": 2
  }
}
```

After you have created an admin, you can provision a credential Key for this admin to use to login to the Admin GUI:

```bash
curl -X POST http://kong:8001/consumers/{consumer}/key-auth -d ''
HTTP/1.1 201 Created

{
    "consumer_id": "876bf719-8f18-4ce5-cc9f-5b5af6c36007",
    "created_at": 1443371053000,
    "id": "62a7d3b7-b995-49f9-c9c8-bac4d781fb59",
    "key": "62eb165c070a41d5c1b58d9d3d725ca1"
}
```

Save this `"key": "62eb165c070a41d5c1b58d9d3d725ca1"` for use later. 

Now that you have an Admin with an associated login Key, update the following in your Kong Configuration, then restart Kong:

```
admin_gui_auth = key-auth
```

The Admin GUI is now aware that authentication is enabled and will restrict access. Browse to the Admin GUI and you will be prompted with a [Login](#logging-in) form. Enter in the key saved from before to gain access to the Admin GUI. You should be able to access all resources. To being creating more admins and setting up role based access restrictions, see [Setting Up Admin API RBAC](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/setting-up-admin-api-rbac).

> Note: Once Kong starts, you will notice that your [Admin API configuration](https://127.0.0.1:8001/) now shows `cors` and `key-auth` plugins are enabled. This is because Kong sets up an internal proxy to the Admin API (e.g. `:8001` -> `:8000/_kong/admin`) and configures the Key Authentication plugin applied only to all routes. These routes &amp; services will not be tracked by Kong Vitals, they will not appear in your proxy traffic, and the internal plugins will not be applied to any other routes or services or be configurable in your Kong instance.

The Admin GUI supports other Authentication plugins which are explained in more detail under [Example configurations](#example-configs):

* LDAP
* [Basic Authentication](https://getkong.org/plugins/basic-authentication)

## Add a Credential

If you are using Basic Authentication or Key Authentication, then you will need to add a credential.

## Example configurations

### Key Authentication

Check out the section [Enabling Authentication](#enable-authentication) for a step by step guide on setting up [Key Authentication](https://getkong.org/plugins/key-authentication).

### LDAP Authentication

The LDAP Advanced Authentication plugin allows Admins to use their own LDAP server to bind authentication to the Admin API with username and password protection. Note: Users must use `Basic` as their `header_type` in the `admin_gui_auth_config` Kong configuration. Here is an example configuration (update the following in your Kong Configuration, then restart Kong):

```
admin_gui_auth = ldap-auth-advanced
```

```
admin_gui_auth_conf={                                     \
"anonymous":"",                                           \
"attribute":"uid",                                        \ 
"base_dn":"<ENTER_YOUR_BASE_DN_HERE>",                    \
"cache_ttl": 2,                                           \
"header_type":"Basic",                                    \
"keepalive":60000,                                        \
"ldap_host":"<ENTER_YOUR_LDAP_HOST_HERE>",                \
"ldap_port":389,                                          \
"start_tls":false,                                        \
"timeout":10000,                                          \
"verify_ldap_host":true                                   \
}
```

The values above can be replaced with their corresponding values for your custom LDAP configuration:

  - `<ENTER_YOUR_BASE_DN_HERE>` - Your LDAP Base DN (Distinguished Name)
        * For Example, `ou=scientists,dc=ldap,dc=kong,dc=com`
  - `<ENTER_YOUR_LDAP_HOST_HERE>` - LDAP Host domain
        * For Example, `ec2"-XX-XXX-XX-XXX.compute-1.amazonaws.com`

After you have updated your configuration and restarted Kong, you will now be able to login to the Admin GUI with a username and password validated against your remote LDAP server.

### Basic Authentication

The [Basic Authentication Plugin](https://getkong.org/plugins/basic-authentication) allows Admins to use username and password to authenticate requests, and can be used to authenticate the Admin GUI.

Create an Admin and Basic Auth Credential:

```bash
curl -X POST http://kong:8001/admins/    \
    --data "username=<USERNAME>"         \
    --data "custom_id=<CUSTOM_ID>"
HTTP/1.1 201 Created

{
  "rbac_user": {
    "comment": "User generated on creation of Admin.",
    "user_token": "a3cebf9e-820d-4543-b760-2b6986e3bb9d",
    "id": "1e24c54d-e575-4910-8a58-4d5f7203be08",
    "name": "user-<USERNAME>-<CUSTOM_ID>",
    "created_at": 1530577554000,
    "enabled": true
  },
  "consumer": {
    "custom_id": "<CUSTOM_ID>",
    "created_at": 1530577554000,
    "id": "1f8c8ce4-7625-4fa4-8904-6a2a507ffa93",
    "status": 0,
    "username": "<USERNAME>",
    "type": 2
  }
}
```

Create the credential:

```bash
curl -X POST http://kong:8001/consumers/{consumer}/basic-auth \
    --data "username=Aladdin" \
    --data "password=OpenSesame"
HTTP/1.1 201 Created

{
  "created_at": 1530652974000,
  "id": "ee05f09f-53aa-4e8c-908a-6538a1bda42f",
  "username": "Aladdin",
  "password": "80b9fa1953449090eeaa7842283f18115195af41",
  "consumer_id": "01a8d15a-4117-437b-be8b-debf52380bc4"
}
```

Update the following in your Kong Configuration, then restart Kong:

```
admin_gui_auth = basic-auth
```

Browse to the Admin GUI and you should now see [Login](#logging-in). The form will reflect that admins now need a username and password to login and administer Kong. Login with the username password created `Aladdin:OpenSesame`.


## Logging In

Ensure you are logged out (see section [Logging Out](#logging-out)). Visit the Admin GUI, where you will be prompted with a login form.

When you submit the login form, the Admin GUI will make a request against the Admin API using the specified `admin_gui_auth` with the data in the form. For instance, if you have `basic-auth` enabled, then the form will submit with the Authorization header e.g. `Authorization: Basic dXNlcm5hbWU6cGFzc3dvcmQ=`. If successful, credentials will be [stored in the browser](#how-authentication-is-stored-in-local-storage) and used for subsequent browser requests.

## Logging Out 👋🏻

Click the "Logout" button in the top right. This will clear the Local Storage authentication data (if exists) and redirect to the login page.

## How Authentication is Stored in Local Storage

The Admin GUI uses the [Local Storage API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Web/API/Window/localStorage) to store and retrieve Authentication credentials, parameters, and headers. Local Storage is saved on every successful login, and it is retrieved on every Admin GUI API XHR request based on the `auth-store-types` value, until you [logout](#logging-out).

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: Local Storage Authentication credentials are stored in the browser via base64-encoding, but are not encrypted. Therefore, it advised that you always used SSL/TLS to encrypt your Admin GUI traffic.

Commit message:

docs(ee/admin-gui) update to always use rbac with auth

app/enterprise/0.33-x/admin-gui/configuration/authentication.md, after:

---
title: Authenticating the Admin GUI
book: admin_gui
chapter: 3
---

# {{page.title}}

- [Enable Authentication](#enable-authentication)
- [Add a Credential](#add-a-credential)
- [Example configurations](#example-configurations)
  - [Key Authentication](#key-authentication)
  - [LDAP Authentication](#ldap-authentication)
  - [Basic Authentication](#basic-authentication)
- [Logging In](#logging-in)
- [Logging Out](#logging-out)
- [How Authentication is Stored in Local Storage](#how-authentication-is-stored-in-local-storage)

> Before you begin, make sure you have gone through the [Getting Started with the Admin GUI](https://getkong.org/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-gui/configuration/getting-started)

## Enable Authentication

First, we will configure the Admin GUI using [Key Authentication](https://getkong.org/plugins/key-authentication). First, we should add an Administrator entity using the Admin API:

```bash
curl -X POST http://kong:8001/admins/    \
    --data "username=<USERNAME>"         \
    --data "custom_id=<CUSTOM_ID>"
HTTP/1.1 201 Created

{
  "rbac_user": {
    "comment": "User generated on creation of Admin.",
    "user_token": "a3cebf9e-820d-4543-b760-2b6986e3bb9d",
    "id": "1e24c54d-e575-4910-8a58-4d5f7203be08",
    "name": "user-<USERNAME>-<CUSTOM_ID>",
    "created_at": 1530577554000,
    "enabled": true
  },
  "consumer": {
    "custom_id": "<CUSTOM_ID>",
    "created_at": 1530577554000,
    "id": "1f8c8ce4-7625-4fa4-8904-6a2a507ffa93",
    "status": 0,
    "username": "<USERNAME>",
    "type": 2
  }
}
```

After you have created an admin, you can provision a credential Key for this admin to use to login to the Admin GUI:

```bash
curl -X POST http://kong:8001/consumers/{consumer}/key-auth -d ''
HTTP/1.1 201 Created

{
    "consumer_id": "876bf719-8f18-4ce5-cc9f-5b5af6c36007",
    "created_at": 1443371053000,
    "id": "62a7d3b7-b995-49f9-c9c8-bac4d781fb59",
    "key": "62eb165c070a41d5c1b58d9d3d725ca1"
}
```

Save this `"key": "62eb165c070a41d5c1b58d9d3d725ca1"` for use later. 

Now you need an RBAC user to associate to this admin. To add the super user see "[Bootstrapping the first RBAC user - the Super Admin](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/rbac/examples/#bootstrapping-the-first-rbac-user-the-super-admin)".

Now that you have an Admin with an associated login Key and a RBAC Super-Admin, update the following in your Kong Configuration, then restart Kong.

```
admin_gui_auth = key-auth
enforce_rbac = on
```

The Admin GUI is now aware that authentication is enabled and will restrict access so that only the Super Admin can login. Browse to the Admin GUI and you will be prompted with a [Login](#logging-in) form. Enter in the key saved from before to gain access to the Admin GUI. You should be able to access all resources.

> Note: Once Kong starts, you will notice that your [Admin API configuration](https://127.0.0.1:8001/) now shows `cors` and `key-auth` plugins are enabled. This is because Kong sets up an internal proxy to the Admin API (e.g. `:8001` -> `:8000/_kong/admin`) and configures the Key Authentication plugin applied only to all routes. These routes &amp; services will not be tracked by Kong Vitals, they will not appear in your proxy traffic, and the internal plugins will not be applied to any other routes or services or be configurable in your Kong instance.

The Admin GUI supports other Authentication plugins which are explained in more detail under [Example configurations](#example-configs):

* LDAP
* [Basic Authentication](https://getkong.org/plugins/basic-authentication)

## Add a Credential

If you are using Basic Authentication or Key Authentication, then you will need to add a credential.

## Example configurations

Set `enforce_rbac = on` in your Kong configuration.

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: When RBAC is `off`, any consumer with a valid credential can login to the admin gui, so you must enable RBAC if you want to restrict access to only Admins.

### Key Authentication

Check out the section [Enabling Authentication](#enable-authentication) for a step by step guide on setting up [Key Authentication](https://getkong.org/plugins/key-authentication).

### LDAP Authentication

The LDAP Advanced Authentication plugin allows Admins to use their own LDAP server to bind authentication to the Admin API with username and password protection. Note: Users must use `Basic` as their `header_type` in the `admin_gui_auth_config` Kong configuration. Here is an example configuration (update the following in your Kong Configuration, then restart Kong):

```
admin_gui_auth = ldap-auth-advanced
enforce_rbac = on
```

```
admin_gui_auth_conf={                                     \
"anonymous":"",                                           \
"attribute":"uid",                                        \ 
"base_dn":"<ENTER_YOUR_BASE_DN_HERE>",                    \
"cache_ttl": 2,                                           \
"header_type":"Basic",                                    \
"keepalive":60000,                                        \
"ldap_host":"<ENTER_YOUR_LDAP_HOST_HERE>",                \
"ldap_port":389,                                          \
"start_tls":false,                                        \
"timeout":10000,                                          \
"verify_ldap_host":true                                   \
}
```

The values above can be replaced with their corresponding values for your custom LDAP configuration:

  - `<ENTER_YOUR_BASE_DN_HERE>` - Your LDAP Base DN (Distinguished Name)
        * For Example, `ou=scientists,dc=ldap,dc=kong,dc=com`
  - `<ENTER_YOUR_LDAP_HOST_HERE>` - LDAP Host domain
        * For Example, `ec2"-XX-XXX-XX-XXX.compute-1.amazonaws.com`

After you have updated your configuration and restarted Kong, you will now be able to login to the Admin GUI with a username and password validated against your remote LDAP server.

### Basic Authentication

The [Basic Authentication Plugin](https://getkong.org/plugins/basic-authentication) allows Admins to use username and password to authenticate requests, and can be used to authenticate the Admin GUI.

Create an Admin and Basic Auth Credential:

```bash
curl -X POST http://kong:8001/admins/    \
    --data "username=<USERNAME>"         \
    --data "custom_id=<CUSTOM_ID>"
HTTP/1.1 201 Created

{
  "rbac_user": {
    "comment": "User generated on creation of Admin.",
    "user_token": "a3cebf9e-820d-4543-b760-2b6986e3bb9d",
    "id": "1e24c54d-e575-4910-8a58-4d5f7203be08",
    "name": "user-<USERNAME>-<CUSTOM_ID>",
    "created_at": 1530577554000,
    "enabled": true
  },
  "consumer": {
    "custom_id": "<CUSTOM_ID>",
    "created_at": 1530577554000,
    "id": "1f8c8ce4-7625-4fa4-8904-6a2a507ffa93",
    "status": 0,
    "username": "<USERNAME>",
    "type": 2
  }
}
```

Create the credential:

```bash
curl -X POST http://kong:8001/consumers/{consumer}/basic-auth \
    --data "username=Aladdin" \
    --data "password=OpenSesame"
HTTP/1.1 201 Created

{
  "created_at": 1530652974000,
  "id": "ee05f09f-53aa-4e8c-908a-6538a1bda42f",
  "username": "Aladdin",
  "password": "80b9fa1953449090eeaa7842283f18115195af41",
  "consumer_id": "01a8d15a-4117-437b-be8b-debf52380bc4"
}
```

Update the following in your Kong Configuration, then restart Kong:

```
admin_gui_auth = basic-auth
enforce_rbac = on
```

Browse to the Admin GUI and you should now see [Login](#logging-in). The form will reflect that admins now need a username and password to login and administer Kong. Login with the username password created `Aladdin:OpenSesame`.


## Logging In

Ensure you are logged out (see section [Logging Out](#logging-out)). Visit the Admin GUI, where you will be prompted with a login form.

When you submit the login form, the Admin GUI will make a request against the Admin API using the specified `admin_gui_auth` with the data in the form. For instance, if you have `basic-auth` enabled, then the form will submit with the Authorization header e.g. `Authorization: Basic dXNlcm5hbWU6cGFzc3dvcmQ=`. If successful, credentials will be [stored in the browser](#how-authentication-is-stored-in-local-storage) and used for subsequent browser requests.

## Logging Out 👋🏻

Click the "Logout" button in the top right. This will clear the Local Storage authentication data (if exists) and redirect to the login page.

## How Authentication is Stored in Local Storage

The Admin GUI uses the [Local Storage API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Web/API/Window/localStorage) to store and retrieve Authentication credentials, parameters, and headers. Local Storage is saved on every successful login, and it is retrieved on every Admin GUI API XHR request based on the `auth-store-types` value, until you [logout](#logging-out).

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: Local Storage Authentication credentials are stored in the browser via base64-encoding, but are not encrypted. Therefore, it advised that you always used SSL/TLS to encrypt your Admin GUI traffic.
