app/docs/0.5.x/plugin-development/access-the-datastore.md, before:

---
title: Plugin Development - Accessing the datastore
book: plugin_dev
chapter: 5
---

# {{page.title}}

Kong interacts with the model layer through classes we refer to as "DAOs". This chapter will detail the available API to interact with the datastore.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> Currently, Kong only supports <a href="http://cassandra.apache.org/">Cassandra</a> as its datastore. This guide assumes that you are already familiar with it and sometimes describes concepts only related to Cassandra, such as indexes and clustering keys.
</div>

---

### The DAO Factory

All entities in Kong are represented by:

- A schema that describes which table the entity relates to in the datastore, and constraints on its fields such as foreign keys, non-null constraints and the likes. This schema is a table such as described in the [plugin configuration]({{page.book.chapters.plugin-configuration}}) chapter.
- A child implementation of the [kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao] module, which consumes the schema and exposes methods to insert, update, find and delete entities of that type.

The core entities in Kong are: Apis, Consumers and Plugins. Each of those entities can be interacted with through their corresponding DAO instance, available on the **DAO Factory** instance. The DAO Factory is responsible for loading those core entities' DAOs as well as any additional entities, provided for example by plugins.

The DAO Factory is generally accessible from the `dao` global variable:

```lua
local dao_factory = dao

-- Core DAOs
local apis_dao = dao_factory.apis
local consumers_dao = dao_factory.consumers
local plugins_dao = dao_factory.plugins
```

It is recommended to cache the global variable into a local one for performance reasons. In some cases, the DAO Factory is also given to you as a local variable. In such cases it is preferred to use it over the global variable for the same reasons.

---

### DAOs Lua API

All methods available on DAOs are documented in the [kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao] module in Kong's Public Lua API Reference.

By extending the base_dao module, all DAOs have access to an abstraction on top of Cassandra, providing methods for inserting, updating, finding and deleting rows, with validation and pagination features that Cassandra does not provide by itself.

For example, inserting an API is as easy as:

```lua
local inserted_api, err = dao.apis:insert({
  name = "mockbin",
  upstream_url = "http://mockbin.com",
  request_host = "mockbin.com"
})
```

---

### Custom DAOs

Because Kong needs to deal with more than those three core entities, the [kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao][kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao] can be inherited to support any entity. Plugins make heavy use of this feature, and every exising plugin implement their own DAO, which is loaded by the DAO Factory and available everywhere the factory is, just like the core entities.

Now, let's see how to create your own DAO for your plugin in the next chapter: [Custom Entities]({{page.book.next}}).

---

Next: [Custom Entities &rsaquo;]({{page.book.next}})

[kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/lua-reference/modules/kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao

Commit message:

docs(dev) improve modules reference docs
- handling of @see references to local functions fixed
- handling of @see references to lua-nginx-module documentation
- template improvements to handle @section tags
- updated reference from Mashape/kong#663

app/docs/0.5.x/plugin-development/access-the-datastore.md, after:

---
title: Plugin Development - Accessing the datastore
book: plugin_dev
chapter: 5
---

# {{page.title}}

Kong interacts with the model layer through classes we refer to as "DAOs". This chapter will detail the available API to interact with the datastore.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> Currently, Kong only supports <a href="http://cassandra.apache.org/">Cassandra</a> as its datastore. This guide assumes that you are already familiar with it and sometimes describes concepts only related to Cassandra, such as indexes and clustering keys.
</div>

---

### The DAO Factory

All entities in Kong are represented by:

- A schema that describes which table the entity relates to in the datastore, and constraints on its fields such as foreign keys, non-null constraints and the likes. This schema is a table such as described in the [plugin configuration]({{page.book.chapters.plugin-configuration}}) chapter.
- A child implementation of the [kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao] module, which consumes the schema and exposes methods to insert, update, find and delete entities of that type. See the [children DAOs interface](http://localhost:3000/docs/0.5.x/lua-reference/modules/kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao/#Children_DAOs_interface).

The core entities in Kong are: Apis, Consumers and Plugins. Each of those entities can be interacted with through their corresponding DAO instance, available on the **DAO Factory** instance. The DAO Factory is responsible for loading those core entities' DAOs as well as any additional entities, provided for example by plugins.

The DAO Factory is generally accessible from the `dao` global variable:

```lua
local dao_factory = dao

-- Core DAOs
local apis_dao = dao_factory.apis
local consumers_dao = dao_factory.consumers
local plugins_dao = dao_factory.plugins
```

It is recommended to cache the global variable into a local one for performance reasons. In some cases, the DAO Factory is also given to you as a local variable. In such cases it is preferred to use it over the global variable for the same reasons.

---

### DAOs Lua API

All methods available on DAOs are documented in the [kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao] module in Kong's Public Lua API Reference. See the [public interface] and [children DAOs interface] sections of the base_dao module.

By extending the base_dao module, all DAOs have access to an abstraction on top of Cassandra, providing methods for inserting, updating, finding and deleting rows, with validation and pagination features that Cassandra does not provide by itself.

For example, inserting an API is as easy as:

```lua
local inserted_api, err = dao.apis:insert({
  name = "mockbin",
  upstream_url = "http://mockbin.com",
  request_host = "mockbin.com"
})
```

---

### Custom DAOs

Because Kong needs to deal with more than those three core entities, the [kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao][kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao] can be inherited to support any entity. Plugins make heavy use of this feature, and every exising plugin implement their own DAO, which is loaded by the DAO Factory and available everywhere the factory is, just like the core entities.

Now, let's see how to create your own DAO for your plugin in the next chapter: [Custom Entities]({{page.book.next}}).

---

Next: [Custom Entities &rsaquo;]({{page.book.next}})

[kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/lua-reference/modules/kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao
[children DAOs interface]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/lua-reference/modules/kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao/#Children_DAOs_interface
[public interface]: /docs/{{page.kong_version}}/lua-reference/modules/kong.dao.cassandra.base_dao/#Public_interface
