app/enterprise/0.31-x/installation/amazon-linux.md, before:

---
title: How to install Kong Enterprise and PostgreSQL onto Amazon Linux
---

# How to Install Kong Enterprise and PostgreSQL onto Amazon Linux

## Install Kong
```bash
EITHER (assuming free trial .rpm loaded locally)
$ sudo yum install kong-free-trials-enterprise-edition-0.31-1.aws.rpm
OR (non-free trial method)
$ sudo yum update
$ wget 'https://<BINTRAY_USER:<PASSWORD>@bintray.com/kong/kong-enterprise-edition-aws/rpm' \
-O bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo \
--auth-no-challenge
$ sudo mv bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo /etc/yum.repos.d/
$ sudo vi /etc/yum.repos.d/bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo
# Ensure `baseurl` is correct
baseurl=https://<BINTRAY_USER>:<BINTRAY_API_KEY>@kong.bintray.com/kong-enterprise-edition-aws
$ sudo yum install kong-enterprise-edition
```

## Install Postgres
```bash
$ sudo yum install postgresql95 postgresql95-server
$ sudo service postgresql95 initdb
$ sudo service postgresql95 start
$ sudo -i -u postgres (puts you into new shell)
```

### Create `kong` user
```bash
$ psql
> CREATE USER kong; CREATE DATABASE kong OWNER kong; ALTER USER kong WITH password 'kong'; 
> \q
$ exit
```

### Add required DB and Kong settings
```bash
# Change entries from ident to md5
$ sudo vi /var/lib/pgsql95/data/pg_hba.conf
$ sudo service postgresql95 restart

# add contents of license file (copy and paste)
$ sudo vi /etc/kong/license.json

# Uncomment and add 'kong' to pg_password line
$ sudo vi [/path/to/kong.conf]

# Run migrations and start kong
$ kong migrations up [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong start [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
```

**Note:** You may use `kong.conf.default` or create [your own configuration](/0.12.x/configuration/#configuration-loading).

### Test your Kong installation

```bash
$ curl -X POST \
--url 'http://localhost:8001/apis' \
--data 'name=demo' \
--data 'uris=/' \
--data 'upstream_url=http://httpbin.org'
```
```bash
$ curl -X GET --url 'http://localhost:8000/ip'
```

### Setup Admin GUI

```bash
# Get the local IP address
$ ifconfig 

# Uncomment the admin_listen setting, and update to 
# something like this `admin_listen = 172.31.3.8:8001`
$ sudo vi [/path/to/kong.conf] 

# Restart kong
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong stop 
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong start [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
```

In a browser, load your server on port `8002`

Commit message:

docs(ee/install) clarify install centos/amazon linux install (#1135)
Clarify how to obtain a Bintray username from an access key.

app/enterprise/0.31-x/installation/amazon-linux.md, after:

---
title: How to install Kong Enterprise and PostgreSQL onto Amazon Linux
---

# How to Install Kong Enterprise and PostgreSQL onto Amazon Linux

## Install Kong
```bash
EITHER (assuming free trial .rpm loaded locally)
$ sudo yum install kong-free-trials-enterprise-edition-0.31-1.aws.rpm
OR (non-free trial method)
$ sudo yum update
$ wget 'https://<BINTRAY_USER:<PASSWORD>@bintray.com/kong/kong-enterprise-edition-aws/rpm' \
-O bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo \
--auth-no-challenge
$ sudo mv bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo /etc/yum.repos.d/
$ sudo vi /etc/yum.repos.d/bintray-kong-kong-enterprise-edition-aws.repo
# Ensure `baseurl` is correct
baseurl=https://<BINTRAY_USER>:<BINTRAY_API_KEY>@kong.bintray.com/kong-enterprise-edition-aws
$ sudo yum install kong-enterprise-edition
```

**Note**: `<USERNAME>` is obtained from your access key, by appending a `%40kong`
to it (encoded form of `@kong`). For example, if your access key is `bob-company`,
your username will be `bob-company%40kong`.

## Install Postgres
```bash
$ sudo yum install postgresql95 postgresql95-server
$ sudo service postgresql95 initdb
$ sudo service postgresql95 start
$ sudo -i -u postgres (puts you into new shell)
```

### Create `kong` user
```bash
$ psql
> CREATE USER kong; CREATE DATABASE kong OWNER kong; ALTER USER kong WITH password 'kong'; 
> \q
$ exit
```

### Add required DB and Kong settings
```bash
# Change entries from ident to md5
$ sudo vi /var/lib/pgsql95/data/pg_hba.conf
$ sudo service postgresql95 restart

# add contents of license file (copy and paste)
$ sudo vi /etc/kong/license.json

# Uncomment and add 'kong' to pg_password line
$ sudo vi [/path/to/kong.conf]

# Run migrations and start kong
$ kong migrations up [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong start [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
```

**Note:** You may use `kong.conf.default` or create [your own configuration](/0.12.x/configuration/#configuration-loading).

### Test your Kong installation

```bash
$ curl -X POST \
--url 'http://localhost:8001/apis' \
--data 'name=demo' \
--data 'uris=/' \
--data 'upstream_url=http://httpbin.org'
```
```bash
$ curl -X GET --url 'http://localhost:8000/ip'
```

### Setup Admin GUI

```bash
# Get the local IP address
$ ifconfig 

# Uncomment the admin_listen setting, and update to 
# something like this `admin_listen = 172.31.3.8:8001`
$ sudo vi [/path/to/kong.conf] 

# Restart kong
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong stop 
$ sudo /usr/local/bin/kong start [-c /path/to/kong.conf]
```

In a browser, load your server on port `8002`
