app/enterprise/0.33-x/plugins/forward-proxy.md, before:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/forward-proxy

title: Forward Proxy
---
# Forward Proxy Plugin

## Synopsis
This plugins allows Kong to connect through an intermediary HTTP proxy instead of directly to the upstream server.

## Configuration

Configuring the plugin is straightforward, you can add it on top of an existing API by executing the following request on your Kong server:

```
$ curl -X POST http://kong:8001/apis/{api}/plugins \
    --data "name=forward-proxy" \
    --data "config.proxy_host=<proxy_host>"
    --data "config.proxy_port=<proxy_port>"
```

`api`: The `id` or `name` of the API that this plugin configuration will target.

You can also apply it for every API using the `http://kong:8001/plugins/` endpoint.

| Form Parameter | Default | Description
| -------------- | ------- | -----------
|`name` | | The name of the plugin to use, in this case: `forward-proxy`
| `config.proxy_host` | | The hostname or IP address of the forward proxy to which to connect
| `config.proxy_port` | | The TCP port of the forward proxy to which to connect
| `config.proxy_scheme` | `http`|	The proxy scheme to use when connecting. Currently only http is supported

## Notes

The plugin attempts to transparently replace upstream connections made by Kong core, sending the request instead to an intermediary forward proxy. Currently only transparent HTTP proxies are supported; TLS connections (via `CONNECT`) are not yet supported.

Commit message:

docs(hub) add warning about dead code (#915)
* docs(hub) add warning about dead code

This is to encourage contributors to update the correct file(s).

* docs(hub) more dead code warnings

app/enterprise/0.33-x/plugins/forward-proxy.md, after:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/forward-proxy


# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
#
# FIXME This file is dead code - it is no longer being rendered or utilized,
# and updates to this file will have no effect.
#
# The remaining contents of this file (below) will be deleted soon.
#
# Updates to the content below should instead be made to the file(s) in /app/_hub/
#
# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


title: Forward Proxy
---
# Forward Proxy Plugin

## Synopsis
This plugins allows Kong to connect through an intermediary HTTP proxy instead of directly to the upstream server.

## Configuration

Configuring the plugin is straightforward, you can add it on top of an existing API by executing the following request on your Kong server:

```
$ curl -X POST http://kong:8001/apis/{api}/plugins \
    --data "name=forward-proxy" \
    --data "config.proxy_host=<proxy_host>"
    --data "config.proxy_port=<proxy_port>"
```

`api`: The `id` or `name` of the API that this plugin configuration will target.

You can also apply it for every API using the `http://kong:8001/plugins/` endpoint.

| Form Parameter | Default | Description
| -------------- | ------- | -----------
|`name` | | The name of the plugin to use, in this case: `forward-proxy`
| `config.proxy_host` | | The hostname or IP address of the forward proxy to which to connect
| `config.proxy_port` | | The TCP port of the forward proxy to which to connect
| `config.proxy_scheme` | `http`|	The proxy scheme to use when connecting. Currently only http is supported

## Notes

The plugin attempts to transparently replace upstream connections made by Kong core, sending the request instead to an intermediary forward proxy. Currently only transparent HTTP proxies are supported; TLS connections (via `CONNECT`) are not yet supported.
