app/enterprise/0.33-x/plugins/rate-limiting-advanced.md, before:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced

title: Rate Limiting Advanced Plugin
---
# Rate Limiting Advanced Plugin
## Configuration

Method 1: apply it on top of an API by executing the following request on your Kong server:

```
$ curl -i -X POST http://kong:8001/apis/{api}/plugins \
  --data name=rate-limiting-advanced \
  --data config.limit=10 \
  --data config.sync_rate=10 \
  --data config.window_size=60
```

Method 2: apply it globally (on all APIs) by executing the following request on your Kong server:

```
$ curl -i -X POST http://kong:8001/plugins \
  --data name=rate-limiting-advanced \
  --data config.limit=10 \
  --data config.sync_rate=10 \
  --data config.window_size=60
```
## Configuration Parameters

| Form Parameter | default | description
|----------------|---------|-------------
| `name`|| The name of the plugin to use, in this case: `rate-limiting-advanced`.
|`config.limit`|| one of more request per window to apply
|`config.window_size`||One more more window sizes to apply (defined in seconds).
|`config.identifier` | `consumer` | How to define the rate limit key. Can be `ip`, `credential`, or `consumer`.
|`config.dictionary_name`| `kong_rate_limiting_counters` | The shared dictionary where counters will be stored until the next sync cycle.
|`config.sync_rate` | | How often to sync counter data to the central data store. A value of 0 results in synchronous behavior; a value of -1 ignores sync behavior entirely and only stores counters in node memory. A value greater than 0 will sync the counters in that many number of seconds.
|`config.namespace` <br>*optional* | `random string`|The rate limiting library namespace to use for this plugin instance. Counter data and sync configuration is shared in a namespace.
|`config.strategy`| `cluster` | The sync strategy to use; `cluster` and `redis` are supported.
|`config.redis.host` <br>*semi-optional* | | Host to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined.
|`config.redis.port` <br>*semi-optional* ||Port to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined.
|`config.redis.timeout` <br>*semi-optional* | | Connection timeout to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined.
|`config.redis.password` <br>*semi-optional* || Password to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. If undefined, no AUTH commands are sent to Redis.
|`config.redis.database` <br>*semi-optional* |`0`|Database to use for Redis connection when the redis strategy is defined.
|`config.redis.sentinel_master` <br>*semi-optional* ||Sentinel master to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
|`config.redis.sentinel_role` <br>*semi-optional* ||Sentinel role to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
|`config.redis.sentinel_addresses` <br>*semi-optional* ||Sentinel addresses to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
|`config.window_type`| `sliding` | This sets the time window to either `sliding` or `fixed`

**Note:  Redis configuration values are ignored if the "cluster" strategy is used.**

**Note: PostgreSQL 9.5+ is required when using the "cluster" strategy with "postgres" as the backing Kong cluster data store. This requirement varies from the PostgreSQL 9.4+ requirement as described in the <a href="/install/source">Kong Community Edition documentation</a>.**

**Note: The `dictionary_name` directive was added to prevent the usage of the `kong` shared dictionary, which could lead to `no memory` errors**

---

## Notes
An arbitrary number of limits/window sizes can be applied per plugin instance. This allows users to create multiple rate limiting windows (e.g., rate limit per minute and per hour, and/or per any arbitrary window size); because of limitation with Kong's plugin configuration interface, each *nth* limit will apply to each *nth* window size. For example:

```
$ curl -i -X POST http://kong:8001/apis/{api}/plugins \
  --data name=rate-limiting-advanced \
  --data config.limit=10,100 \
  --data config.window_size=60,3600 \
  --data config.sync_rate=10
```
This will apply rate limiting policies, one of which will trip when 10 hits have been counted in 60 seconds, or when 100 hits have been counted in 3600 seconds.

Commit message:

docs(hub) add warning about dead code (#915)
* docs(hub) add warning about dead code

This is to encourage contributors to update the correct file(s).

* docs(hub) more dead code warnings

app/enterprise/0.33-x/plugins/rate-limiting-advanced.md, after:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced


# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
#
# FIXME This file is dead code - it is no longer being rendered or utilized,
# and updates to this file will have no effect.
#
# The remaining contents of this file (below) will be deleted soon.
#
# Updates to the content below should instead be made to the file(s) in /app/_hub/
#
# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


title: Rate Limiting Advanced Plugin
---
# Rate Limiting Advanced Plugin
## Configuration

Method 1: apply it on top of an API by executing the following request on your Kong server:

```
$ curl -i -X POST http://kong:8001/apis/{api}/plugins \
  --data name=rate-limiting-advanced \
  --data config.limit=10 \
  --data config.sync_rate=10 \
  --data config.window_size=60
```

Method 2: apply it globally (on all APIs) by executing the following request on your Kong server:

```
$ curl -i -X POST http://kong:8001/plugins \
  --data name=rate-limiting-advanced \
  --data config.limit=10 \
  --data config.sync_rate=10 \
  --data config.window_size=60
```
## Configuration Parameters

| Form Parameter | default | description
|----------------|---------|-------------
| `name`|| The name of the plugin to use, in this case: `rate-limiting-advanced`.
|`config.limit`|| one of more request per window to apply
|`config.window_size`||One more more window sizes to apply (defined in seconds).
|`config.identifier` | `consumer` | How to define the rate limit key. Can be `ip`, `credential`, or `consumer`.
|`config.dictionary_name`| `kong_rate_limiting_counters` | The shared dictionary where counters will be stored until the next sync cycle.
|`config.sync_rate` | | How often to sync counter data to the central data store. A value of 0 results in synchronous behavior; a value of -1 ignores sync behavior entirely and only stores counters in node memory. A value greater than 0 will sync the counters in that many number of seconds.
|`config.namespace` <br>*optional* | `random string`|The rate limiting library namespace to use for this plugin instance. Counter data and sync configuration is shared in a namespace.
|`config.strategy`| `cluster` | The sync strategy to use; `cluster` and `redis` are supported.
|`config.redis.host` <br>*semi-optional* | | Host to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined.
|`config.redis.port` <br>*semi-optional* ||Port to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined.
|`config.redis.timeout` <br>*semi-optional* | | Connection timeout to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined.
|`config.redis.password` <br>*semi-optional* || Password to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. If undefined, no AUTH commands are sent to Redis.
|`config.redis.database` <br>*semi-optional* |`0`|Database to use for Redis connection when the redis strategy is defined.
|`config.redis.sentinel_master` <br>*semi-optional* ||Sentinel master to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
|`config.redis.sentinel_role` <br>*semi-optional* ||Sentinel role to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
|`config.redis.sentinel_addresses` <br>*semi-optional* ||Sentinel addresses to use for Redis connection when the `redis` strategy is defined. Defining this value implies using Redis Sentinel.
|`config.window_type`| `sliding` | This sets the time window to either `sliding` or `fixed`

**Note:  Redis configuration values are ignored if the "cluster" strategy is used.**

**Note: PostgreSQL 9.5+ is required when using the "cluster" strategy with "postgres" as the backing Kong cluster data store. This requirement varies from the PostgreSQL 9.4+ requirement as described in the <a href="/install/source">Kong Community Edition documentation</a>.**

**Note: The `dictionary_name` directive was added to prevent the usage of the `kong` shared dictionary, which could lead to `no memory` errors**

---

## Notes
An arbitrary number of limits/window sizes can be applied per plugin instance. This allows users to create multiple rate limiting windows (e.g., rate limit per minute and per hour, and/or per any arbitrary window size); because of limitation with Kong's plugin configuration interface, each *nth* limit will apply to each *nth* window size. For example:

```
$ curl -i -X POST http://kong:8001/apis/{api}/plugins \
  --data name=rate-limiting-advanced \
  --data config.limit=10,100 \
  --data config.window_size=60,3600 \
  --data config.sync_rate=10
```
This will apply rate limiting policies, one of which will trip when 10 hits have been counted in 60 seconds, or when 100 hits have been counted in 3600 seconds.
