app/enterprise/0.33-x/plugins/statsd-advanced.md, before:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/statsd-advanced

title: StatsD Advanced Plugin
---
# StatsD Advanced Plugin

Log metrics for a Service, Route (or the deprecated API entity) and internal metrics of Kong to a StatsD server.

## Configuration Parameters

| Form Parameter | Default | Description |
| --------- | ----------- | ------- | -------- |
| `host` | `127.0.0.1` | The IP address or host name of StatsdD server to send data to. |
| `port` | `8125` | The port of StatsdD server to send data to. |
| `metrics` | All metrics are logged | List of Metrics to be logged. Available values are described under [Metrics](#metrics). |
| `prefix` | `kong`| String to be prefixed to each metric's name. |
| `udp_packet_size` | `0` (not combined) | Combine UDP packet up to the size configured. |
| `use_tcp` | `false` | Use TCP instead of UDP. |

By default the Plugin sends a packet for each metric it observes.
`udp_packet_size` configures the greatest datagram size the Plugin can combine.
It should be less than 65507 according to UDP protocol.
Please consider the MTU of the network when setting this parameter.

## Metrics

Metric                     | description | namespace
---                        | ---         | ---
`request_count`            | the request count | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.request.count
`request_size`             | the request's body size in bytes | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.request.size
`response_size`            | the response's body size in bytes | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.response.size
`latency`                  | the time interval between the request and response | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.latency
`status_count`             | the status code | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.status.\<status>.count
`unique_users`             | the unique users who made requests to the underlying Service/Route | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.user.uniques
`request_per_user`         | the request count per Consumer | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.user.\<consumer_id>.count
`upstream_latency`         | the time it took for the final Service to process the request | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.upstream_latency
`kong_latency`             | the internal Kong latency that it took to run all the Plugins | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.kong_latency
`status_count_per_user`    | the status code for per Consumer per Service | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.user.\<customer_id>.status.\<status>
`status_count_per_user_per_route`    | the status code per Consumer per Route | kong.route.\<route_id>.user.\<customer_id>.status.\<status>
`shdict_usage`             | the usage of shared dict, sent once every minute |kong.node.\<node_hostname>.shdict.\<shdict_name>.free_space and kong.node.\<node_hostname>.shdict.\<shdict_name>.capacity


If a request URI doesn't match any Routes, the following metrics will be sent instead:

Metric                     | description | namespace
---                        | ---         | ---
`request_count`            | the request count | kong.global.unmatched.request.count
`request_size`             | the request's body size in bytes | kong.global.unmatched.request.size
`response_size`            | the response's body size in bytes | kong.global.unmatched.response.size
`latency`                  | the time interval between the request started and response received from the upstream server | kong.global.unmatched.latency
`status_count`             | the status code | kong.global.unmatched.status.\<status>.count
`kong_latency`             | the internal Kong latency that it took to run all the Plugins | kong.global.unmatched.kong_latency

### Metric Fields

Plugin can be configured with any combination of [Metrics](#metrics), with each entry containing the following fields:

Field         | description                                             | allowed values
---           | ---                                                     | ---
`name`          | StatsD metric's name                                  | [Metrics](#metrics)          
`stat_type`     | determines what sort of event the metric represents   | `gauge`, `timer`, `counter`, `histogram`, `meter` and `set`|
`sample_rate`<br>*conditional*   | sampling rate                        | `number`                 
`customer_identifier`<br>*conditional* | authenticated user detail       | `consumer_id`, `custom_id`, `username`
`service_identifier`<br>*conditional* | Service detail       | `service_id`, `service_name`, `service_host`, `service_name_or_host`

### Metric Behaviours

1.  By default all metrics get logged.
2.  Metric with `stat_type` set to `counter` or `gauge` must have `sample_rate` defined as well.
3.  `unique_users` metric only works with `stat_type` as `set`.
4.  `status_count`, `status_count_per_user`, `status_count_per_user_per_route` and `request_per_user` work only with `stat_type` as `counter`.
5.  `shdict_usage` work only with `stat_type` as `gauge`.
6.  `status_count_per_user`, `request_per_user`, `unique_users` and `status_count_per_user_per_route` must have `customer_identifier` defined.
7.  All metrics can optionally configure `service_identifier`; by default it's set to `service_name_or_host`.


## Kong Process Errors

This logging Plugin will only log HTTP request and response data. If you are
looking for the Kong process error file (which is the nginx error file), then
you can find it at the following path:
{[prefix](/{{site.data.kong_latest.release}}/configuration/#prefix)}/logs/error.log

Commit message:

docs(hub) add warning about dead code
This is to encourage contributors to update the correct file(s).

app/enterprise/0.33-x/plugins/statsd-advanced.md, after:

---
redirect_to: /hub/kong-inc/statsd-advanced


# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
#
# FIXME This file is dead code - it is no longer being rendered or utilized,
# and updates to this file will have no effect.
#
# The remaining contents of this file (below) will be deleted soon.
#
# Updates to the content below should instead be made to the file(s) in /app/_hub/
#
# !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!   WARNING   !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


title: StatsD Advanced Plugin
---
# StatsD Advanced Plugin

Log metrics for a Service, Route (or the deprecated API entity) and internal metrics of Kong to a StatsD server.

## Configuration Parameters

| Form Parameter | Default | Description |
| --------- | ----------- | ------- | -------- |
| `host` | `127.0.0.1` | The IP address or host name of StatsdD server to send data to. |
| `port` | `8125` | The port of StatsdD server to send data to. |
| `metrics` | All metrics are logged | List of Metrics to be logged. Available values are described under [Metrics](#metrics). |
| `prefix` | `kong`| String to be prefixed to each metric's name. |
| `udp_packet_size` | `0` (not combined) | Combine UDP packet up to the size configured. |
| `use_tcp` | `false` | Use TCP instead of UDP. |

By default the Plugin sends a packet for each metric it observes.
`udp_packet_size` configures the greatest datagram size the Plugin can combine.
It should be less than 65507 according to UDP protocol.
Please consider the MTU of the network when setting this parameter.

## Metrics

Metric                     | description | namespace
---                        | ---         | ---
`request_count`            | the request count | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.request.count
`request_size`             | the request's body size in bytes | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.request.size
`response_size`            | the response's body size in bytes | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.response.size
`latency`                  | the time interval between the request and response | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.latency
`status_count`             | the status code | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.status.\<status>.count
`unique_users`             | the unique users who made requests to the underlying Service/Route | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.user.uniques
`request_per_user`         | the request count per Consumer | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.user.\<consumer_id>.count
`upstream_latency`         | the time it took for the final Service to process the request | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.upstream_latency
`kong_latency`             | the internal Kong latency that it took to run all the Plugins | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.kong_latency
`status_count_per_user`    | the status code for per Consumer per Service | kong.service.\<service_identifier>.user.\<customer_id>.status.\<status>
`status_count_per_user_per_route`    | the status code per Consumer per Route | kong.route.\<route_id>.user.\<customer_id>.status.\<status>
`shdict_usage`             | the usage of shared dict, sent once every minute |kong.node.\<node_hostname>.shdict.\<shdict_name>.free_space and kong.node.\<node_hostname>.shdict.\<shdict_name>.capacity


If a request URI doesn't match any Routes, the following metrics will be sent instead:

Metric                     | description | namespace
---                        | ---         | ---
`request_count`            | the request count | kong.global.unmatched.request.count
`request_size`             | the request's body size in bytes | kong.global.unmatched.request.size
`response_size`            | the response's body size in bytes | kong.global.unmatched.response.size
`latency`                  | the time interval between the request started and response received from the upstream server | kong.global.unmatched.latency
`status_count`             | the status code | kong.global.unmatched.status.\<status>.count
`kong_latency`             | the internal Kong latency that it took to run all the Plugins | kong.global.unmatched.kong_latency

### Metric Fields

Plugin can be configured with any combination of [Metrics](#metrics), with each entry containing the following fields:

Field         | description                                             | allowed values
---           | ---                                                     | ---
`name`          | StatsD metric's name                                  | [Metrics](#metrics)          
`stat_type`     | determines what sort of event the metric represents   | `gauge`, `timer`, `counter`, `histogram`, `meter` and `set`|
`sample_rate`<br>*conditional*   | sampling rate                        | `number`                 
`customer_identifier`<br>*conditional* | authenticated user detail       | `consumer_id`, `custom_id`, `username`
`service_identifier`<br>*conditional* | Service detail       | `service_id`, `service_name`, `service_host`, `service_name_or_host`

### Metric Behaviours

1.  By default all metrics get logged.
2.  Metric with `stat_type` set to `counter` or `gauge` must have `sample_rate` defined as well.
3.  `unique_users` metric only works with `stat_type` as `set`.
4.  `status_count`, `status_count_per_user`, `status_count_per_user_per_route` and `request_per_user` work only with `stat_type` as `counter`.
5.  `shdict_usage` work only with `stat_type` as `gauge`.
6.  `status_count_per_user`, `request_per_user`, `unique_users` and `status_count_per_user_per_route` must have `customer_identifier` defined.
7.  All metrics can optionally configure `service_identifier`; by default it's set to `service_name_or_host`.


## Kong Process Errors

This logging Plugin will only log HTTP request and response data. If you are
looking for the Kong process error file (which is the nginx error file), then
you can find it at the following path:
{[prefix](/{{site.data.kong_latest.release}}/configuration/#prefix)}/logs/error.log
