---
#
# WARNING: this file was auto-generated by a script.
# DO NOT edit this file directly. Instead, send a pull 
# request to change the file at 
# https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/master/kong.conf.default.

# If you can't find the parameter at the Kong/kong URL, the parameter 
# must be updated in Kong/kong-ee:
# https://github.com/Kong/kong-ee/blob/master/kong.conf.default

title: Configuration Reference for Kong Gateway
source_url: https://github.com/Kong/kong/edit/master/kong.conf.default
---

<!-- vale off -->

Reference for {{site.base_gateway}} configuration parameters. Set these parameters in `kong.conf`.

To learn more about the `kong.conf` file, see the guide on using the [Kong Configuration File](/gateway/{{page.release}}/production/kong-conf/).

You can also manage all {{site.base_gateway}} configuration parameters using [environment variables](/gateway/{{page.release}}/production/environment-variables/).

---

## General section

### prefix

Working directory. Equivalent to Nginx's prefix path, containing temporary
files and logs.

Each Kong process must have a separate working directory.

**Default:** `/usr/local/kong/`


### log_level

Log level of the Nginx server. Logs are found at `<prefix>/logs/error.log`.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#error_log for a list of
accepted values.

**Default:** `notice`


### proxy_access_log

Path for proxy port request access logs. Set this value to `off` to disable
logging proxy requests.

If this value is a relative path, it will be placed under the `prefix`
location.

**Default:** `logs/access.log`


### proxy_error_log

Path for proxy port request error logs.

The granularity of these logs is adjusted by the `log_level` property.

**Default:** `logs/error.log`


### proxy_stream_access_log

Path for TCP streams proxy port access logs.

Set to `off` to disable logging proxy requests.

If this value is a relative path, it will be placed under the `prefix`
location.

`basic` is defined as `'$remote_addr [$time_local] ' '$protocol $status
$bytes_sent $bytes_received ' '$session_time'`

**Default:** `logs/access.log basic`


### proxy_stream_error_log

Path for tcp streams proxy port request error logs. The granularity of these
logs is adjusted by the `log_level` property.

**Default:** `logs/error.log`


### admin_access_log

Path for Admin API request access logs.

If hybrid mode is enabled and the current node is set to be the control plane,
then the connection requests from data planes are also written to this file with
server name "kong_cluster_listener".

Set this value to `off` to disable logging Admin API requests.

If this value is a relative path, it will be placed under the `prefix`
location.

**Default:** `logs/admin_access.log`


### admin_error_log

Path for Admin API request error logs.

The granularity of these logs is adjusted by the `log_level` property.

**Default:** `logs/error.log`


### status_access_log

Path for Status API request access logs.

The default value of `off` implies that logging for this API is disabled by
default.

If this value is a relative path, it will be placed under the `prefix`
location.

**Default:** `off`


### status_error_log

Path for Status API request error logs.

The granularity of these logs is adjusted by the `log_level` property.

**Default:** `logs/status_error.log`


### debug_access_log
 
Path for Debug API request access logs. The default value `off` implies that
logging for this API is disabled by default.

If this value is a relative path, it will be placed under the `prefix`
location.

**Default:** `off`


### debug_error_log

Path for Debug API request error logs. The granularity of these logs is
adjusted using the `log_level` property.

**Default:** `logs/debug_error.log`


### vaults

Comma-separated list of vaults this node should load.

By default, all the bundled vaults are enabled.

The specified name(s) will be substituted as such in the Lua namespace:
`kong.vaults.{name}.*`.

**Default:** `bundled`


### opentelemetry_tracing

Deprecated: use `tracing_instrumentations` instead.

**Default:** `off`


### tracing_instrumentations

Comma-separated list of tracing instrumentations this node should load.

By default, no instrumentations are enabled.

Valid values for this setting are:

- `off`: do not enable instrumentations.
- `request`: only enable request-level instrumentations.
- `all`: enable all the following instrumentations.
- `db_query`: trace database queries.
- `dns_query`: trace DNS queries.
- `router`: trace router execution, including router rebuilding.
- `http_client`: trace OpenResty HTTP client requests.
- `balancer`: trace balancer retries.
- `plugin_rewrite`: trace plugin iterator execution with rewrite phase.
- `plugin_access`: trace plugin iterator execution with access phase.
- `plugin_header_filter`: trace plugin iterator execution with header_filter
  phase.

**Note:** In the current implementation, tracing instrumentations are not
enabled in stream mode.

**Default:** `off`


### opentelemetry_tracing_sampling_rate

Deprecated: use `tracing_sampling_rate` instead.

**Default:** `1.0`


### tracing_sampling_rate

Tracing instrumentation sampling rate.

Tracer samples a fixed percentage of all spans following the sampling rate.

Example: `0.25`, this accounts for 25% of all traces.

**Default:** `0.01`


### plugins

Comma-separated list of plugins this node should load.

By default, only plugins bundled in official distributions are loaded via the
`bundled` keyword.

Loading a plugin does not enable it by default, but only instructs Kong to load
its source code and allows configuration via the various related Admin API
endpoints.

The specified name(s) will be substituted as such in the Lua namespace:
`kong.plugins.{name}.*`.

When the `off` keyword is specified as the only value, no plugins will be
loaded.

`bundled` and plugin names can be mixed together, as the following examples
suggest:

- `plugins = bundled,custom-auth,custom-log` will include the bundled plugins
  plus two custom ones.
- `plugins = custom-auth,custom-log` will *only* include the `custom-auth` and
  `custom-log` plugins.
- `plugins = off` will not include any plugins.

**Note:** Kong will not start if some plugins were previously configured (i.e.
have rows in the database) and are not specified in this list. Before disabling
a plugin, ensure all instances of it are removed before restarting Kong.

**Note:** Limiting the amount of available plugins can improve P99 latency when
experiencing LRU churning in the database cache (i.e. when the configured
`mem_cache_size`) is full.

**Default:** `bundled`


### dedicated_config_processing

Enables or disables a special worker process for configuration processing. This
process increases memory usage a little bit while allowing to reduce latencies
by moving some background tasks, such as CP/DP connection handling, to an
additional worker process specific to handling these background tasks.

Currently this has effect only on data planes.

**Default:** `on`


### pluginserver_names

Comma-separated list of names for pluginserver processes. The actual names are
used for log messages and to relate the actual settings.

**Default:** none


### pluginserver_XXX_socket

Path to the unix socket used by the <XXX> pluginserver.

**Default:** `<prefix>/<XXX>.socket`


### pluginserver_XXX_start_cmd

Full command (including any needed arguments) to start the <XXX> pluginserver.

**Default:** `/usr/local/bin/<XXX>`


### pluginserver_XXX_query_cmd

Full command to "query" the <XXX> pluginserver. Should produce a JSON with the
dump info of the plugin it manages.

**Default:** `/usr/local/bin/query_<XXX>`


### port_maps

With this configuration parameter, you can let Kong Gateway know the port from
which the packets are forwarded to it. This is fairly common when running Kong
in a containerized or virtualized environment.

For example, `port_maps=80:8000, 443:8443` instructs Kong that the port 80 is
mapped to 8000 (and the port 443 to 8443), where 8000 and 8443 are the ports
that Kong is listening to.

This parameter helps Kong set a proper forwarded upstream HTTP request header
or to get the proper forwarded port with the Kong PDK (in case other means
determining it has failed). It changes routing by a destination port to route by
a port from which packets are forwarded to Kong, and similarly it changes the
default plugin log serializer to use the port according to this mapping instead
of reporting the port Kong is listening to.

**Default:** none


### anonymous_reports

Send anonymous usage data such as error stack traces to help improve Kong.

**Default:** `on`


### proxy_server

Proxy server defined as an encoded URL. Kong will only use this option if a
component is explicitly configured to use a proxy.

**Default:** none


### proxy_server_ssl_verify

Toggles server certificate verification if `proxy_server` is in HTTPS.

See the `lua_ssl_trusted_certificate` setting to specify a certificate
authority.

**Default:** `off`


### error_template_html

Path to the custom html error template to override the default html kong error
template.

The template may contain up to two `%s` placeholders. The first one will expand
to the error message. The second one will expand to the request ID. Both
placeholders are optional, but recommended.

Adding more than two placeholders will result in a runtime error when trying to
render the template:

```
<html>
   <body>
     <h1>My custom error template</h1>
     <p>error: %s</p>
     <p>request_id: %s</p>
   </body>
</html>
```

**Default:** none


### error_template_json

Path to the custom json error template to override the default json kong error
template.

Similarly to `error_template_html`, the template may contain up to two `%s`
placeholders for the error message and the request ID respectively.

**Default:** none


### error_template_xml

Path to the custom xml error template to override the default xml kong error
template

Similarly to `error_template_html`, the template may contain up to two `%s`
placeholders for the error message and the request ID respectively.

**Default:** none


### error_template_plain

Path to the custom plain error template to override the default plain kong
error template

Similarly to `error_template_html`, the template may contain up to two `%s`
placeholders for the error message and the request ID respectively.

**Default:** none


---

## Hybrid Mode section

### role

Use this setting to enable hybrid mode, This allows running some Kong nodes in
a control plane role with a database and have them deliver configuration updates
to other nodes running to DB-less running in a data plane role.

Valid values for this setting are:

- `traditional`: do not use hybrid mode.
- `control_plane`: this node runs in a control plane role. It can use a
  database and will deliver configuration updates to data plane nodes.
- `data_plane`: this is a data plane node. It runs DB-less and receives
  configuration updates from a control plane node.

**Default:** `traditional`


### cluster_mtls

Sets the verification method between nodes of the cluster.

Valid values for this setting are:

- `shared`: use a shared certificate/key pair specified with the `cluster_cert`
  and `cluster_cert_key` settings. Note that CP and DP nodes must present the
  same certificate to establish mTLS connections.
- `pki`: use `cluster_ca_cert`, `cluster_server_name`, and `cluster_cert` for
  verification. These are different certificates for each DP node, but issued by
  a cluster-wide common CA certificate: `cluster_ca_cert`.
- `pki_check_cn`: similar to `pki` but additionally checks for the common name
  of the data plane certificate specified in `cluster_allowed_common_names`.

**Default:** `shared`


### cluster_cert

Cluster certificate to use when establishing secure communication between
control and data plane nodes.

You can use the `kong hybrid` command to generate the certificate/key pair.

Under `shared` mode, it must be the same for all nodes.

Under `pki` mode, it should be a different certificate for each DP node.

The certificate can be configured on this property with any of the following
values:

- absolute path to the certificate
- certificate content
- base64 encoded certificate content

**Default:** none


### cluster_cert_key

Cluster certificate key to use when establishing secure communication between
control and data plane nodes.

You can use the `kong hybrid` command to generate the certificate/key pair.

Under `shared` mode, it must be the same for all nodes. Under `pki` mode it
should be a different certificate for each DP node.

The certificate key can be configured on this property with either of the
following values:

- absolute path to the certificate key
- certificate key content
- base64 encoded certificate key content

**Default:** none


### cluster_ca_cert

The trusted CA certificate file in PEM format used for:

- Control plane to verify data plane's certificate
- Data plane to verify control plane's certificate

Required on data plane if `cluster_mtls` is set to `pki`.

If the control plane certificate is issued by a well-known CA, set
`lua_ssl_trusted_certificate=system` on the data plane and leave this field
empty.

This field is ignored if `cluster_mtls` is set to `shared`.

The certificate can be configured on this property with any of the following
values:

- absolute path to the certificate
- certificate content
- base64 encoded certificate content

**Default:** none


### cluster_allowed_common_names

The list of Common Names that are allowed to connect to control plane. Multiple
entries may be supplied in a comma-separated string. When not set, only data
plane with the same parent domain as the control plane cert is allowed to
connect.

This field is ignored if `cluster_mtls` is not set to `pki_check_cn`.

**Default:** none


### incremental_sync

The setting to enable or disable the incremental synchronization of
configuration changes.

Instead of sending the entire entity config to data planes on each config
update, incremental config sync lets you send only the changed configuration to
data planes for hybrid mode deployments.

The valid values are `on` and `off`.

To enable, set this value to `on`.

In hybrid mode, this setting must be configured on both control plane and data
plane nodes.

**Default:** `off`


---

## Hybrid Mode Data Plane section

### cluster_server_name

The server name used in the SNI of the TLS connection from a DP node to a CP
node.

Must match the Common Name (CN) or Subject Alternative Name (SAN) found in the
CP certificate.

If `cluster_mtls` is set to `shared`, this setting is ignored and
`kong_clustering` is used.

**Default:** none


### cluster_control_plane

To be used by data plane nodes only: address of the control plane node from
which configuration updates will be fetched, in `host:port` format.

**Default:** none


### cluster_telemetry_endpoint

To be used by data plane nodes only: telemetry address of the control plane
node to which telemetry updates will be posted in `host:port` format.

**Default:** none


### cluster_telemetry_server_name

The SNI (Server Name Indication extension) to use for Vitals telemetry data.

**Default:** none


### cluster_dp_labels

Comma-separated list of labels for the data plane.

Labels are key-value pairs that provide additional context information for each
DP.

Each label must be configured as a string in the format `key:value`.

Labels are only compatible with hybrid mode deployments with Kong Konnect
(SaaS).

This configuration doesn't work with self-hosted deployments.

Keys and values follow the AIP standards: https://kong-aip.netlify.app/aip/129/

Example: `deployment:mycloud,region:us-east-1`

**Default:** none


---

## Hybrid Mode Control Plane section

### cluster_listen

Comma-separated list of addresses and ports on which the cluster control plane
server should listen for data plane connections.

The cluster communication port of the control plane must be accessible by all
the data planes within the same cluster. This port is mTLS protected to ensure
end-to-end security and integrity.

This setting has no effect if `role` is not set to `control_plane`.

Connections made to this endpoint are logged to the same location as Admin API
access logs.

See `admin_access_log` config description for more information.

**Default:** `0.0.0.0:8005`


### cluster_telemetry_listen

Comma-separated list of addresses and ports on which the cluster control plane
server should listen for data plane telemetry connections.

The cluster communication port of the control plane must be accessible by all
the data planes within the same cluster.

This setting has no effect if `role` is not set to `control_plane`.

**Default:** `0.0.0.0:8006`


### cluster_data_plane_purge_delay

How many seconds must pass from the time a DP node becomes offline to the time
its entry gets removed from the database, as returned by the
/clustering/data-planes Admin API endpoint.

This is to prevent the cluster data plane table from growing indefinitely. The
default is set to 14 days. That is, if the CP hasn't heard from a DP for 14
days, its entry will be removed.

**Default:** `1209600`


### cluster_ocsp

Whether to check for revocation status of DP certificates using OCSP (Online
Certificate Status Protocol).

If enabled, the DP certificate should contain the "Certificate Authority
Information Access" extension and the OCSP method with URI of which the OCSP
responder can be reached from CP.

OCSP checks are only performed on CP nodes, it has no effect on DP nodes.

Valid values for this setting are:

- `on`: OCSP revocation check is enabled and DP must pass the check in order to
  establish connection with CP.
- `off`: OCSP revocation check is disabled.
- `optional`: OCSP revocation check will be attempted, however, if the required
  extension is not found inside DP-provided certificate or communication with
  the OCSP responder failed, then DP is still allowed through.

**Default:** `off`


### cluster_use_proxy

Whether to turn on HTTP CONNECT proxy support for hybrid mode connections.
`proxy_server` will be used for hybrid mode connections if this option is turned
on.

**Default:** `off`


### cluster_max_payload

This sets the maximum compressed payload size allowed to be sent from CP to DP
in hybrid mode.

Default is 16MB - 16 * 1024 * 1024.

**Default:** `16777216`


---

## NGINX section

### proxy_listen

Comma-separated list of addresses and ports on which the proxy server should
listen for HTTP/HTTPS traffic.

The proxy server is the public entry point of Kong, which proxies traffic from
your consumers to your backend services. This value accepts IPv4, IPv6, and
hostnames.

Some suffixes can be specified for each pair:

- `ssl` will require that all connections made through a particular
  address/port be made with TLS enabled.
- `http2` will allow for clients to open HTTP/2 connections to Kong's proxy
  server.
- `proxy_protocol` will enable usage of the PROXY protocol for a given
  address/port.
- `deferred` instructs to use a deferred accept on Linux (the
  `TCP_DEFER_ACCEPT` socket option).
- `bind` instructs to make a separate bind() call for a given address:port
  pair.
- `reuseport` instructs to create an individual listening socket for each
  worker process, allowing the kernel to better distribute incoming connections
  between worker processes.
- `backlog=N` sets the maximum length for the queue of pending TCP connections.
  This number should not be too small to prevent clients seeing "Connection
  refused" errors when connecting to a busy Kong instance. **Note:** On Linux,
  this value is limited by the setting of the `net.core.somaxconn` kernel
  parameter. In order for the larger `backlog` set here to take effect, it is
  necessary to raise `net.core.somaxconn` at the same time to match or exceed
  the `backlog` number set.
- `ipv6only=on|off` specifies whether an IPv6 socket listening on a wildcard
  address [::] will accept only IPv6 connections or both IPv6 and IPv4
  connections.
- `so_keepalive=on|off|[keepidle]:[keepintvl]:[keepcnt]` configures the TCP
  keepalive behavior for the listening socket. If this parameter is omitted, the
  operating system’s settings will be in effect for the socket. If it is set
  to the value `on`, the `SO_KEEPALIVE` option is turned on for the socket. If
  it is set to the value `off`, the `SO_KEEPALIVE` option is turned off for the
  socket. Some operating systems support setting of TCP keepalive parameters on
  a per-socket basis using the `TCP_KEEPIDLE`,` TCP_KEEPINTVL`, and
  `TCP_KEEPCNT` socket options.

This value can be set to `off`, thus disabling the HTTP/HTTPS proxy port for
this node.

If `stream_listen` is also set to `off`, this enables control plane mode for
this node (in which all traffic proxying capabilities are disabled). This node
can then be used only to configure a cluster of Kong nodes connected to the same
datastore.

Example: `proxy_listen = 0.0.0.0:443 ssl, 0.0.0.0:444 http2 ssl`

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#listen for a
description of the accepted formats for this and other `*_listen` values.

See https://www.nginx.com/resources/admin-guide/proxy-protocol/ for more
details about the `proxy_protocol` parameter.

Not all `*_listen` values accept all formats specified in nginx's
documentation.

**Default:** `0.0.0.0:8000 reuseport backlog=16384, 0.0.0.0:8443 http2 ssl reuseport backlog=16384`


### proxy_url

Kong Proxy URL

The lookup, or balancer, address for your Kong Proxy nodes.

This value is commonly used in a microservices or service-mesh oriented
architecture.

Accepted format (parts in parentheses are optional):

`<scheme>://<IP / HOSTNAME>(:<PORT>(/<PATH>))`

Examples:

- `<scheme>://<IP>:<PORT>` -> `proxy_url = http://127.0.0.1:8000`
- `SSL <scheme>://<HOSTNAME>` -> `proxy_url = https://proxy.domain.tld`
- `<scheme>://<HOSTNAME>/<PATH>` -> `proxy_url = http://dev-machine/dev-285`

By default, Kong Manager and Kong Portal will use the window request host and
append the resolved listener port depending on the requested protocol.

**Default:** none


### stream_listen

Comma-separated list of addresses and ports on which the stream mode should
listen.

This value accepts IPv4, IPv6, and hostnames.

Some suffixes can be specified for each pair:

- `ssl` will require that all connections made through a particular
  address/port be made with TLS enabled.
- `proxy_protocol` will enable usage of the PROXY protocol for a given
  address/port.
- `bind` instructs to make a separate bind() call for a given address:port
  pair.
- `reuseport` instructs to create an individual listening socket for each
  worker process, allowing the kernel to better distribute incoming connections
  between worker processes.
- `backlog=N` sets the maximum length for the queue of pending TCP connections.
  This number should not be too small to prevent clients seeing "Connection
  refused" errors when connecting to a busy Kong instance. **Note:** On Linux,
  this value is limited by the setting of the `net.core.somaxconn` kernel
  parameter. In order for the larger `backlog` set here to take effect, it is
  necessary to raise `net.core.somaxconn` at the same time to match or exceed
  the `backlog` number set.
- `ipv6only=on|off` specifies whether an IPv6 socket listening on a wildcard
  address [::] will accept only IPv6 connections or both IPv6 and IPv4
  connections
- so_keepalive=on|off|[keepidle]:[keepintvl]:[keepcnt] configures the "TCP
  keepalive" behavior for the listening socket. If this parameter is omitted
  then the operating system’s settings will be in effect for the socket. If it
  is set to the value "on", the SO_KEEPALIVE option is turned on for the socket.
  If it is set to the value "off", the SO_KEEPALIVE option is turned off for the
  socket. Some operating systems support setting of TCP keepalive parameters on
  a per-socket basis using the` TCP_KEEPIDLE`, `TCP_KEEPINTVL`, and
  `TCP_KEEPCNT` socket options.

Examples:

```
stream_listen = 127.0.0.1:7000 reuseport backlog=16384
stream_listen = 0.0.0.0:989 reuseport backlog=65536, 0.0.0.0:20
stream_listen = [::1]:1234 backlog=16384
```

By default, this value is set to `off`, thus disabling the stream proxy port
for this node.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/stream/ngx_stream_core_module.html#listen for a
description of the formats that Kong might accept in stream_listen.

**Default:** `off`


### admin_api_uri

Deprecated: Use admin_gui_api_url instead

**Default:** none


### admin_listen

Comma-separated list of addresses and ports on which the Admin interface should
listen.

The Admin interface is the API allowing you to configure and manage Kong.

Access to this interface should be *restricted* to Kong administrators *only*.
This value accepts IPv4, IPv6, and hostnames.

It is highly recommended to avoid exposing the Admin API to public interfaces,
by using values such as `0.0.0.0:8001`

See
https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/production/running-kong/secure-admin-api/
for more information about how to secure your Admin API.

Some suffixes can be specified for each pair:

- `ssl` will require that all connections made through a particular
  address/port be made with TLS enabled.
- `http2` will allow for clients to open HTTP/2 connections to Kong's proxy
  server.
- `proxy_protocol` will enable usage of the PROXY protocol for a given
  address/port.
- `deferred` instructs to use a deferred accept on Linux (the
  `TCP_DEFER_ACCEPT` socket option).
- `bind` instructs to make a separate bind() call for a given address:port
  pair.
- `reuseport` instructs to create an individual listening socket for each
  worker process, allowing the Kernel to better distribute incoming connections
  between worker processes.
- `backlog=N` sets the maximum length for the queue of pending TCP connections.
  This number should not be too small to prevent clients seeing "Connection
  refused" errors when connecting to a busy Kong instance. **Note:** On Linux,
  this value is limited by the setting of the `net.core.somaxconn` kernel
  parameter. In order for the larger `backlog` set here to take effect, it is
  necessary to raise `net.core.somaxconn` at the same time to match or exceed
  the `backlog` number set.
- `ipv6only=on|off` specifies whether an IPv6 socket listening on a wildcard
  address [::] will accept only IPv6 connections or both IPv6 and IPv4
  connections.
- `so_keepalive=on|off|[keepidle]:[keepintvl]:[keepcnt]` configures the “TCP
  keepalive” behavior for the listening socket. If this parameter is omitted,
  the operating system’s settings will be in effect for the socket. If it is
  set to the value `on`, the `SO_KEEPALIVE` option is turned on for the socket.
  If it is set to the value `off`, the `SO_KEEPALIVE` option is turned off for
  the socket. Some operating systems support setting of TCP keepalive parameters
  on a per-socket basis using the `TCP_KEEPIDLE`, `TCP_KEEPINTVL`, and
  `TCP_KEEPCNT` socket options.

This value can be set to `off`, thus disabling the Admin interface for this
node, enabling a data plane mode (without configuration capabilities) pulling
its configuration changes from the database.

Example: `admin_listen = 127.0.0.1:8444 http2 ssl`

**Default:** `127.0.0.1:8001 reuseport backlog=16384, 127.0.0.1:8444 http2 ssl reuseport backlog=16384`


### status_listen

Comma-separated list of addresses and ports on which the Status API should
listen.

The Status API is a read-only endpoint allowing monitoring tools to retrieve
metrics, healthiness, and other non-sensitive information of the current Kong
node.

The following suffix can be specified for each pair:

- `ssl` will require that all connections made through a particular
  address/port be made with TLS enabled.
- `http2` will allow for clients to open HTTP/2 connections to Kong's Status
  API server.
- `proxy_protocol` will enable usage of the PROXY protocol.

This value can be set to `off`, disabling the Status API for this node.

Example: `status_listen = 0.0.0.0:8100 ssl http2`

**Default:** `127.0.0.1:8007 reuseport backlog=16384`


### debug_listen

Comma-separated list of addresses and ports on which the Debug API should
listen.

The following suffix can be specified for each pair:

- `ssl` will require that all connections made through a particular
  address/port be made with TLS enabled.
- `http2` will allow for clients to open HTTP/2 connections to Kong's Debug API
  server.

This value can be set to `off`, disabling the Debug API for this node.

Example: `debug_listen = 0.0.0.0:8200 ssl http2`

**Default:** `off`


### debug_listen_local

Expose `debug_listen` functionalities via a Unix domain socket under the Kong
prefix.

This option allows local users to use `kong debug` command to invoke various
debug functionalities without needing to enable `debug_listen` ahead of time.

**Default:** `on`


### nginx_user

Defines user and group credentials used by worker processes. If group is
omitted, a group whose name equals that of user is used.

Example: `nginx_user = nginx www`

**Note**: If the `kong` user and the `kong` group are not available, the
default user and group credentials will be `nobody nobody`.

**Default:** `kong kong`


### nginx_worker_processes

Determines the number of worker processes spawned by Nginx.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#worker_processes for detailed
usage of the equivalent Nginx directive and a description of accepted values.

**Default:** `auto`


### nginx_daemon

Determines whether Nginx will run as a daemon or as a foreground process.
Mainly useful for development or when running Kong inside a Docker environment.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#daemon.

**Default:** `on`


### mem_cache_size

Size of each of the two shared memory caches for traditional mode database
entities and runtime data, `kong_core_cache` and `kong_cache`.

The accepted units are `k` and `m`, with a minimum recommended value of a few
MBs.

**Note**: As this option controls the size of two different cache zones, the
total memory Kong uses to cache entities might be double this value.

The created zones are shared by all worker processes and do not become larger
when more workers are used.

**Default:** `128m`


### consumers_mem_cache_size

Size of the shared memory cache for consumers and credentials.

The accepted units are `k` and `m`, with a minimum recommended value of a few
MBs.

**Note**: This is only used when the "externalized consumers" feature is
active.

**Default:** `128m`


### ssl_cipher_suite

Defines the TLS ciphers served by Nginx.

Accepted values are `modern`, `intermediate`, `old`, `fips` or `custom`.

If you want to enable TLSv1.1, this value has to be `old`.

See https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Server_Side_TLS for detailed descriptions
of each cipher suite. `fips` cipher suites are as described in
https://wiki.openssl.org/index.php/FIPS_mode_and_TLS.

**Default:** `intermediate`


### ssl_ciphers

Defines a custom list of TLS ciphers to be served by Nginx. This list must
conform to the pattern defined by `openssl ciphers`.

This value is ignored if `ssl_cipher_suite` is not `custom`.

If you use DHE ciphers, you must also configure the `ssl_dhparam` parameter.

**Default:** none


### ssl_protocols

Enables the specified protocols for client-side connections. The set of
supported protocol versions also depends on the version of OpenSSL Kong was
built with. This value is ignored if `ssl_cipher_suite` is not `custom`.

If you want to enable TLSv1.1, you should set `ssl_cipher_suite` to `old`.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_protocols

**Default:** `TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3`


### ssl_prefer_server_ciphers

Specifies that server ciphers should be preferred over client ciphers when
using the SSLv3 and TLS protocols. This value is ignored if `ssl_cipher_suite`
is not `custom`.

See
http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_prefer_server_ciphers

**Default:** `on`


### ssl_dhparam

Defines DH parameters for DHE ciphers from the predefined groups: `ffdhe2048`,
`ffdhe3072`, `ffdhe4096`, `ffdhe6144`, `ffdhe8192`, from the absolute path to a
parameters file, or directly from the parameters content.

This value is ignored if `ssl_cipher_suite` is `modern` or `intermediate`. The
reason is that `modern` has no ciphers that need this, and `intermediate` uses
`ffdhe2048`.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_dhparam

**Default:** none


### ssl_session_tickets

Enables or disables session resumption through TLS session tickets. This has no
impact when used with TLSv1.3.

Kong enables this by default for performance reasons, but it has security
implications: https://github.com/mozilla/server-side-tls/issues/135

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_session_tickets

**Default:** `on`


### ssl_session_timeout

Specifies a time during which a client may reuse the session parameters. See
the rationale: https://github.com/mozilla/server-side-tls/issues/198

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_session_timeout

**Default:** `1d`


### ssl_session_cache_size

Sets the size of the caches that store session parameters.

See https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_session_cache

**Default:** `10m`


### ssl_cert

Comma-separated list of certificates for `proxy_listen` values with TLS
enabled.

If more than one certificate is specified, it can be used to provide alternate
types of certificates (for example, ECC certificates) that will be served to
clients that support them. Note that to properly serve using ECC certificates,
it is recommended to also set `ssl_cipher_suite` to `modern` or `intermediate`.

Unless this option is explicitly set, Kong will auto-generate a pair of default
certificates (RSA + ECC) the first time it starts up and use them for serving
TLS requests.

Certificates can be configured on this property with any of the following
values:

- absolute path to the certificate
- certificate content
- base64 encoded certificate content

**Default:** none


### ssl_cert_key

Comma-separated list of keys for `proxy_listen` values with TLS enabled.

If more than one certificate was specified for `ssl_cert`, then this option
should contain the corresponding key for all certificates provided in the same
order.

Unless this option is explicitly set, Kong will auto-generate a pair of default
private keys (RSA + ECC) the first time it starts up and use them for serving
TLS requests.

Keys can be configured on this property with any of the following values:

- absolute path to the certificate key
- certificate key content
- base64 encoded certificate key content

**Default:** none


### client_ssl

Determines if Nginx should attempt to send client-side TLS certificates and
perform Mutual TLS Authentication with upstream service when proxying requests.

**Default:** `off`


### client_ssl_cert

If `client_ssl` is enabled, the client certificate for the
`proxy_ssl_certificate` directive.

This value can be overwritten dynamically with the `client_certificate`
attribute of the `Service` object.

The certificate can be configured on this property with any of the following
values:

- absolute path to the certificate
- certificate content
- base64 encoded certificate content

**Default:** none


### client_ssl_cert_key

If `client_ssl` is enabled, the client TLS key for the
`proxy_ssl_certificate_key` directive.

This value can be overwritten dynamically with the `client_certificate`
attribute of the `Service` object.

The certificate key can be configured on this property with any of the
following values:

- absolute path to the certificate key
- certificate key content
- base64 encoded certificate key content

**Default:** none


### admin_ssl_cert

Comma-separated list of certificates for `admin_listen` values with TLS
enabled.

See docs for `ssl_cert` for detailed usage.

**Default:** none


### admin_ssl_cert_key

Comma-separated list of keys for `admin_listen` values with TLS enabled.

See docs for `ssl_cert_key` for detailed usage.

**Default:** none


### status_ssl_cert

Comma-separated list of certificates for `status_listen` values with TLS
enabled.

See docs for `ssl_cert` for detailed usage.

**Default:** none


### status_ssl_cert_key

Comma-separated list of keys for `status_listen` values with TLS enabled.

See docs for `ssl_cert_key` for detailed usage.

**Default:** none


### debug_ssl_cert

Comma-separated list of certificates for `debug_listen` values with TLS
enabled.

See docs for `ssl_cert` for detailed usage.

**Default:** none


### debug_ssl_cert_key

Comma-separated list of keys for `debug_listen` values with TLS enabled.

See docs for `ssl_cert_key` for detailed usage.

**Default:** none


### headers

Comma-separated list of headers Kong should inject in client responses.

Accepted values are:

- `Server`: Injects `Server: kong/x.y.z` on Kong-produced responses (e.g.,
  Admin API, rejected requests from auth plugin).
- `Via`: Injects `Via: kong/x.y.z` for successfully proxied requests.
- `X-Kong-Proxy-Latency`: Time taken (in milliseconds) by Kong to process a
  request and run all plugins before proxying the request upstream.
- `X-Kong-Response-Latency`: Time taken (in milliseconds) by Kong to produce a
  response in case of, e.g., a plugin short-circuiting the request, or in case
  of an error.
- `X-Kong-Upstream-Latency`: Time taken (in milliseconds) by the upstream
  service to send response headers.
- `X-Kong-Admin-Latency`: Time taken (in milliseconds) by Kong to process an
  Admin API request.
- `X-Kong-Upstream-Status`: The HTTP status code returned by the upstream
  service. This is particularly useful for clients to distinguish upstream
  statuses if the response is rewritten by a plugin.
- `X-Kong-Request-Id`: Unique identifier of the request.
- `server_tokens`: Same as specifying both `Server` and `Via`.
- `latency_tokens`: Same as specifying `X-Kong-Proxy-Latency`,
  `X-Kong-Response-Latency`, `X-Kong-Admin-Latency`, and
  `X-Kong-Upstream-Latency`.

In addition to these, this value can be set to `off`, which prevents Kong from
injecting any of the above headers. Note that this does not prevent plugins from
injecting headers of their own.

Example: `headers = via, latency_tokens`

**Default:** `server_tokens, latency_tokens, X-Kong-Request-Id`


### headers_upstream

Comma-separated list of headers Kong should inject in requests to upstream.

At this time, the only accepted value is:

- `X-Kong-Request-Id`: Unique identifier of the request.

In addition, this value can be set to `off`, which prevents Kong from injecting
the above header. Note that this does not prevent plugins from injecting headers
of their own.

**Default:** `X-Kong-Request-Id`


### trusted_ips

Defines trusted IP address blocks that are known to send correct
`X-Forwarded-*` headers.

Requests from trusted IPs make Kong forward their `X-Forwarded-*` headers
upstream.

Non-trusted requests make Kong insert its own `X-Forwarded-*` headers.

This property also sets the `set_real_ip_from` directive(s) in the Nginx
configuration. It accepts the same type of values (CIDR blocks) but as a
comma-separated list.

To trust *all* IPs, set this value to `0.0.0.0/0,::/0`.

If the special value `unix:` is specified, all UNIX-domain sockets will be
trusted.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_realip_module.html#set_real_ip_from
for examples of accepted values.

**Default:** none


### real_ip_header

Defines the request header field whose value will be used to replace the client
address.

This value sets the `ngx_http_realip_module` directive of the same name in the
Nginx configuration.

If this value receives `proxy_protocol`:

- at least one of the `proxy_listen` entries must have the `proxy_protocol`
  flag enabled.
- the `proxy_protocol` parameter will be appended to the `listen` directive of
  the Nginx template.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_realip_module.html#real_ip_header
for a description of this directive.

**Default:** `X-Real-IP`


### real_ip_recursive

This value sets the `ngx_http_realip_module` directive of the same name in the
Nginx configuration.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_realip_module.html#real_ip_recursive
for a description of this directive.

**Default:** `off`


### error_default_type

Default MIME type to use when the request `Accept` header is missing and Nginx
is returning an error for the request.

Accepted values are `text/plain`, `text/html`, `application/json`, and
`application/xml`.

**Default:** `text/plain`


### upstream_keepalive_pool_size

Sets the default size of the upstream keepalive connection pools.

Upstream keepalive connection pools are segmented by the `dst ip/dst port/SNI`
attributes of a connection.

A value of `0` will disable upstream keepalive connections by default, forcing
each upstream request to open a new connection.

**Default:** `512`


### upstream_keepalive_max_requests

Sets the default maximum number of requests that can be proxied upstream
through one keepalive connection.

After the maximum number of requests is reached, the connection will be closed.

A value of `0` will disable this behavior, and a keepalive connection can be
used to proxy an indefinite number of requests.

**Default:** `10000`


### upstream_keepalive_idle_timeout

Sets the default timeout (in seconds) for which an upstream keepalive
connection should be kept open. When the timeout is reached while the connection
has not been reused, it will be closed.

A value of `0` will disable this behavior, and an idle keepalive connection may
be kept open indefinitely.

**Default:** `60`


### allow_debug_header

Enable the `Kong-Debug` header function.

If it is `on`, Kong will add `Kong-Route-Id`, `Kong-Route-Name`,
`Kong-Service-Id`, and `Kong-Service-Name` debug headers to the response when
the client request header `Kong-Debug: 1` is present.

**Default:** `off`


---

## NGINX Injected Directives section

Nginx directives can be dynamically injected in the runtime nginx.conf file
without requiring a custom Nginx configuration template.

All configuration properties following the naming scheme
`nginx_<namespace>_<directive>` will result in `<directive>` being injected in
the Nginx configuration block corresponding to the property's `<namespace>`.

Example: `nginx_proxy_large_client_header_buffers = 8 24k`

Will inject the following directive in Kong's proxy `server {}` block:

`large_client_header_buffers 8 24k;`

The following namespaces are supported:

- `nginx_main_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's configuration
  `main` context.
- `nginx_events_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's `events {}`
  block.
- `nginx_http_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's `http {}` block.
- `nginx_proxy_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's proxy `server {}`
  block.
- `nginx_location_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's proxy `/`
  location block (nested under Kong's proxy `server {}` block).
- `nginx_upstream_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's proxy `upstream
  {}` block.
- `nginx_admin_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's Admin API `server
  {}` block.
- `nginx_status_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's Status API
  `server {}` block (only effective if `status_listen` is enabled).
- `nginx_debug_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's Debug API
  `server{}` block (only effective if `debug_listen` or `debug_listen_local` is
  enabled).
- `nginx_stream_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's stream module
  `stream {}` block (only effective if `stream_listen` is enabled).
- `nginx_sproxy_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's stream module
  `server {}` block (only effective if `stream_listen` is enabled).
- `nginx_supstream_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` in Kong's stream module
  `upstream {}` block.

As with other configuration properties, Nginx directives can be injected via
environment variables when capitalized and prefixed with `KONG_`.

Example: `KONG_NGINX_HTTP_SSL_PROTOCOLS` -> `nginx_http_ssl_protocols`

Will inject the following directive in Kong's `http {}` block:

`ssl_protocols <value>;`

If different sets of protocols are desired between the proxy and Admin API
server, you may specify `nginx_proxy_ssl_protocols` and/or
`nginx_admin_ssl_protocols`, both of which take precedence over the `http {}`
block.


### nginx_main_worker_rlimit_nofile

Changes the limit on the maximum number of open files for worker processes.

The special and default value of `auto` sets this value to `ulimit -n` with the
upper bound limited to 16384 as a measure to protect against excess memory use,
and the lower bound of 1024 as a good default.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#worker_rlimit_nofile

**Default:** `auto`


### nginx_events_worker_connections

Sets the maximum number of simultaneous connections that can be opened by a
worker process.

The special and default value of `auto` sets this value to `ulimit -n` with the
upper bound limited to 16384 as a measure to protect against excess memory use,
and the lower bound of 1024 as a good default.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/ngx_core_module.html#worker_connections

**Default:** `auto`


### nginx_http_client_header_buffer_size

Sets buffer size for reading the client request headers.

See
http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#client_header_buffer_size

**Default:** `1k`


### nginx_http_large_client_header_buffers

Sets the maximum number and size of buffers used for reading large client
request headers.

See
http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#large_client_header_buffers

**Default:** `4 8k`


### nginx_http_client_max_body_size

Defines the maximum request body size allowed by requests proxied by Kong,
specified in the Content-Length request header. If a request exceeds this limit,
Kong will respond with a 413 (Request Entity Too Large). Setting this value to 0
disables checking the request body size.

See
http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#client_max_body_size

**Default:** `0`


### nginx_admin_client_max_body_size

Defines the maximum request body size for Admin API.

**Default:** `10m`


### nginx_http_charset

Adds the specified charset to the "Content-Type" response header field. If this
charset is different from the charset specified in the `source_charset`
directive, a conversion is performed.

The parameter `off` cancels the addition of charset to the "Content-Type"
response header field.

See http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_charset_module.html#charset

**Default:** `UTF-8`


### nginx_http_client_body_buffer_size

Defines the buffer size for reading the request body. If the client request
body is larger than this value, the body will be buffered to disk. Note that
when the body is buffered to disk, Kong plugins that access or manipulate the
request body may not work, so it is advisable to set this value as high as
possible (e.g., set it as high as `client_max_body_size` to force request bodies
to be kept in memory). Do note that high-concurrency environments will require
significant memory allocations to process many concurrent large request bodies.

See
http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#client_body_buffer_size

**Default:** `8k`


### nginx_admin_client_body_buffer_size

Defines the buffer size for reading the request body on Admin API.

**Default:** `10m`


### nginx_http_lua_regex_match_limit

Global `MATCH_LIMIT` for PCRE regex matching. The default of `100000` should
ensure at worst any regex Kong executes could finish within roughly 2 seconds.

**Default:** `100000`


### nginx_http_lua_regex_cache_max_entries

Specifies the maximum number of entries allowed in the worker process level
PCRE JIT compiled regex cache.

It is recommended to set it to at least (number of regex paths * 2) to avoid
high CPU usages if you manually specified `router_flavor` to `traditional`.
`expressions` and `traditional_compat` router do not make use of the PCRE
library and their behavior is unaffected by this setting.

**Default:** `8192`


### nginx_http_keepalive_requests

Sets the maximum number of client requests that can be served through one
keep-alive connection. After the maximum number of requests are made, the
connection is closed.

Closing connections periodically is necessary to free per-connection memory
allocations. Therefore, using too high a maximum number of requests could result
in excessive memory usage and is not recommended.

See:
https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_core_module.html#keepalive_requests

**Default:** `10000`


---

## Datastore section

Kong can run with a database to store coordinated data between Kong nodes in a
cluster, or without a database, where each node stores its information
independently in memory.

When using a database, Kong will store data for all its entities (such as
routes, services, consumers, and plugins) in PostgreSQL, and all Kong nodes
belonging to the same cluster must connect to the same database.

Kong supports PostgreSQL versions 9.5 and above.

When not using a database, Kong is said to be in "DB-less mode": it will keep
its entities in memory, and each node needs to have this data entered via a
declarative configuration file, which can be specified through the
`declarative_config` property, or via the Admin API using the `/config`
endpoint.

When using Postgres as the backend storage, you can optionally enable Kong to
serve read queries from a separate database instance.

When the number of proxies is large, this can greatly reduce the load on the
main Postgres instance and achieve better scalability. It may also reduce the
latency jitter if the Kong proxy node's latency to the main Postgres instance is
high.

The read-only Postgres instance only serves read queries, and write queries
still go to the main connection. The read-only Postgres instance can be
eventually consistent while replicating changes from the main instance.

At least the `pg_ro_host` config is needed to enable this feature.

By default, all other database config for the read-only connection is inherited
from the corresponding main connection config described above but may be
optionally overwritten explicitly using the `pg_ro_*` config below.


### database

Determines the database (or no database) for this node Accepted values are
`postgres` and `off`.

**Default:** `postgres`



### Postgres settings

name   | description  | default
-------|--------------|----------
**pg_host** | Host of the Postgres server. | `127.0.0.1`
**pg_port** | Port of the Postgres server. | `5432`
**pg_timeout** | Defines the timeout (in ms), for connecting, reading and writing. | `5000`
**pg_user** | Postgres user. | `kong`
**pg_password** | Postgres user's password. | none
**pg_iam_auth** | Determines whether the AWS IAM database Authentication will be used. When switch to `on`, the username defined in `pg_user` will be used as the database account, and the database connection will be forced to using TLS. `pg_password` will not be used when the switch is `on`. Note that the corresponding IAM policy must be correct, otherwise connecting will fail. | `off`
**pg_iam_auth_assume_role_arn** | The target AWS IAM role ARN that will be assumed when using AWS IAM database authentication. Typically this is used for operating between multiple roles or cross-accounts. If you are not using assume role you should not specify this value. | none
**pg_iam_auth_role_session_name** | The role session name used for role assuming in AWS IAM Database Authentication. The default value is `KongPostgres`. | `KongPostgres`
**pg_iam_auth_sts_endpoint_url** | The custom STS endpoint URL used for role assuming in AWS IAM Database Authentication. Note that this value will override the default STS endpoint URL(which should be `https://sts.amazonaws.com`, or `https://sts.<region>.amazonaws.com` if you have `AWS_STS_REGIONAL_ENDPOINTS` set to `regional`). If you are not using private VPC endpoint for STS service, you should not specify this value. | none
**pg_database** | The database name to connect to. | `kong`
**pg_schema** | The database schema to use. If unspecified, Kong will respect the `search_path` value of your PostgreSQL instance. | none
**pg_ssl** | Toggles client-server TLS connections between Kong and PostgreSQL. Because PostgreSQL uses the same port for TLS and non-TLS, this is only a hint. If the server does not support TLS, the established connection will be a plain one. | `off`
**pg_ssl_version** | When using ssl between Kong and PostgreSQL, the version of tls to use. Accepted values are `tlsv1_1`, `tlsv1_2`, `tlsv1_3`, or 'any'. When `any` is set, the client negotiates the highest version with the server which can't be lower than `tlsv1_1`. | `tlsv1_2`
**pg_ssl_required** | When `pg_ssl` is on this determines if TLS must be used between Kong and PostgreSQL. It aborts the connection if the server does not support SSL connections. | `off`
**pg_ssl_verify** | Toggles server certificate verification if `pg_ssl` is enabled. See the `lua_ssl_trusted_certificate` setting to specify a certificate authority. | `off`
**pg_ssl_cert** | The absolute path to the PEM encoded client TLS certificate for the PostgreSQL connection. Mutual TLS authentication against PostgreSQL is only enabled if this value is set. | none
**pg_ssl_cert_key** | If `pg_ssl_cert` is set, the absolute path to the PEM encoded client TLS private key for the PostgreSQL connection. | none
**pg_max_concurrent_queries** | Sets the maximum number of concurrent queries that can be executing at any given time. This limit is enforced per worker process; the total number of concurrent queries for this node will be will be: `pg_max_concurrent_queries * nginx_worker_processes`. The default value of 0 removes this concurrency limitation. | `0`
**pg_semaphore_timeout** | Defines the timeout (in ms) after which PostgreSQL query semaphore resource acquisition attempts will fail. Such failures will generally result in the associated proxy or Admin API request failing with an HTTP 500 status code. Detailed discussion of this behavior is available in the online documentation. | `60000`
**pg_keepalive_timeout** | Specify the maximal idle timeout (in ms) for the postgres connections in the pool. If this value is set to 0 then the timeout interval is unlimited. If not specified this value will be same as `lua_socket_keepalive_timeout` | none
**pg_pool_size** | Specifies the size limit (in terms of connection count) for the Postgres server. Note that this connection pool is intended per Nginx worker rather than per Kong instance. If not specified, the default value is the same as `lua_socket_pool_size` | none
**pg_backlog** | If specified, this value will limit the total number of open connections to the Postgres server to `pg_pool_size`. If the connection pool is full, subsequent connect operations will be inserted in a queue with size equal to this option's value. If the number of queued connect operations reaches `pg_backlog`, exceeding connections will fail. If not specified, then number of open connections to the Postgres server is not limited. | none
**pg_ro_host** | Same as `pg_host`, but for the read-only connection. **Note:** Refer to the documentation section above for detailed usage. | none
**pg_ro_port** | Same as `pg_port`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_port>`
**pg_ro_timeout** | Same as `pg_timeout`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_timeout>`
**pg_ro_user** | Same as `pg_user`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_user>`
**pg_ro_password** | Same as `pg_password`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_password>`
**pg_ro_iam_auth** | Same as `pg_iam_auth`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_iam_auth>`
**pg_ro_iam_auth_assume_role_arn** | Same as `pg_iam_auth_assume_role_arn', but for the read-only connection. | none
**pg_ro_iam_auth_role_session_name** | Same as `pg_iam_auth_role_session_name`, but for the read-only connection. | `KongPostgres`
**pg_ro_iam_auth_sts_endpoint_url** | Same as `pg_iam_auth_sts_endpoint_url`, but for the read-only connection. | none
**pg_ro_database** | Same as `pg_database`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_database>`
**pg_ro_schema** | Same as `pg_schema`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_schema>`
**pg_ro_ssl** | Same as `pg_ssl`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_ssl>`
**pg_ro_ssl_required** | Same as `pg_ssl_required`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_ssl_required>`
**pg_ro_ssl_verify** | Same as `pg_ssl_verify`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_ssl_verify>`
**pg_ro_ssl_version** | Same as `pg_ssl_version`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_ssl_version>`
**pg_ro_max_concurrent_queries** | Same as `pg_max_concurrent_queries`, but for the read-only connection. Note: read-only concurrency is not shared with the main (read-write) connection. | `<pg_max_concurrent_queries>`
**pg_ro_semaphore_timeout** | Same as `pg_semaphore_timeout`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_semaphore_timeout>`
**pg_ro_keepalive_timeout** | Same as `pg_keepalive_timeout`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_keepalive_timeout>`
**pg_ro_pool_size** | Same as `pg_pool_size`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_pool_size>`
**pg_ro_backlog** | Same as `pg_backlog`, but for the read-only connection. | `<pg_backlog>`

### declarative_config

The path to the declarative configuration file which holds the specification of
all entities (routes, services, consumers, etc.) to be used when the `database`
is set to `off`.

Entities are stored in Kong's LMDB cache, so you must ensure that enough
headroom is allocated to it via the `lmdb_map_size` property.

If the hybrid mode `role` is set to `data_plane` and there's no configuration
cache file, this configuration is used before connecting to the control plane
node as a user-controlled fallback.

**Default:** none


### declarative_config_string

The declarative configuration as a string

**Default:** none


### lmdb_environment_path

Directory where the LMDB database files used by DB-less and hybrid mode to
store Kong configurations reside.

This path is relative under the Kong `prefix`.

**Default:** `dbless.lmdb`


### lmdb_map_size

Maximum size of the LMDB memory map, used to store the DB-less and hybrid mode
configurations. Default is 2048m.

This config defines the limit of LMDB file size; the actual file size growth
will be on-demand and proportional to the actual config size.

Note this value can be set very large, say a couple of GBs, to accommodate
future database growth and Multi-Version Concurrency Control (MVCC) headroom
needs.

The file size of the LMDB database file should stabilize after a few config
reloads/hybrid mode syncs, and the actual memory used by the LMDB database will
be smaller than the file size due to dynamic swapping of database pages by the
OS.

**Default:** `2048m`


---

## Datastore Cache section

In order to avoid unnecessary communication with the datastore, Kong caches
entities (such as APIs, consumers, credentials...) for a configurable period of
time. It also handles invalidations if such an entity is updated.

This section allows for configuring the behavior of Kong regarding the caching
of such configuration entities.


### db_update_frequency

Frequency (in seconds) at which to check for updated entities with the
datastore.

When a node creates, updates, or deletes an entity via the Admin API, other
nodes need to wait for the next poll (configured by this value) to eventually
purge the old cached entity and start using the new one.

**Default:** `5`


### db_update_propagation

Time (in seconds) taken for an entity in the datastore to be propagated to
replica nodes of another datacenter.

When set, this property will increase the time taken by Kong to propagate the
change of an entity.

Single-datacenter setups or PostgreSQL servers should suffer no such delays,
and this value can be safely set to 0.

Postgres setups with read replicas should set this value to the maximum
expected replication lag between the writer and reader instances.

**Default:** `0`


### db_cache_ttl

Time-to-live (in seconds) of an entity from the datastore when cached by this
node.

Database misses (no entity) are also cached according to this setting if you do
not configure `db_cache_neg_ttl`.

If set to 0 (default), such cached entities or misses never expire.

**Default:** `0`


### db_cache_neg_ttl

Time-to-live (in seconds) of a datastore miss (no entity).

If not specified (default), `db_cache_ttl` value will be used instead.

If set to 0, misses will never expire.

**Default:** none


### db_resurrect_ttl

Time (in seconds) for which stale entities from the datastore should be
resurrected when they cannot be refreshed (e.g., the datastore is unreachable).
When this TTL expires, a new attempt to refresh the stale entities will be made.

**Default:** `30`


### db_cache_warmup_entities

Entities to be pre-loaded from the datastore into the in-memory cache at Kong
start-up.

This speeds up the first access of endpoints that use the given entities.

When the `services` entity is configured for warmup, the DNS entries for values
in its `host` attribute are pre-resolved asynchronously as well.

Cache size set in `mem_cache_size` should be set to a value large enough to
hold all instances of the specified entities.

If the size is insufficient, Kong will log a warning.

**Default:** `services`


---

## DNS Resolver section

By default, the DNS resolver will use the standard configuration files
`/etc/hosts` and `/etc/resolv.conf`. The settings in the latter file will be
overridden by the environment variables `LOCALDOMAIN` and `RES_OPTIONS` if they
have been set.

Kong will resolve hostnames as either `SRV` or `A` records (in that order, and
`CNAME` records will be dereferenced in the process).

In case a name is resolved as an `SRV` record, it will also override any given
port number with the `port` field contents received from the DNS server.

The DNS options `SEARCH` and `NDOTS` (from the `/etc/resolv.conf` file) will be
used to expand short names to fully qualified ones. So it will first try the
entire `SEARCH` list for the `SRV` type, if that fails it will try the `SEARCH`
list for `A`, etc.

For the duration of the `ttl`, the internal DNS resolver will load balance each
request it gets over the entries in the DNS record. For `SRV` records, the
`weight` fields will be honored, but it will only use the lowest `priority`
field entries in the record.

For DNS records returned with a TTL value of 0, Kong will default to caching
these records for 1 second. Strict adherence to the requirement of not caching
TTL 0 records could generate excessive query frequency to upstream DNS servers,
leading to unsustainable load and potential service degradation. As a result,
most DNS resolver implementations deviate from this requirement in practice.


### dns_resolver

Comma-separated list of nameservers, each entry in `ip[:port]` format to be
used by Kong. If not specified, the nameservers in the local `resolv.conf` file
will be used.

Port defaults to 53 if omitted. Accepts both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.

**Default:** none


### dns_hostsfile

The hosts file to use. This file is read once and its content is static in
memory.

To read the file again after modifying it, Kong must be reloaded.

**Default:** `/etc/hosts`


### dns_order

The order in which to resolve different record types. The `LAST` type means the
type of the last successful lookup (for the specified name). The format is a
(case insensitive) comma-separated list.

**Default:** `LAST,SRV,A,CNAME`


### dns_valid_ttl

By default, DNS records are cached using the TTL value of a response. If this
property receives a value (in seconds), it will override the TTL for all
records.

**Default:** none


### dns_stale_ttl

Defines, in seconds, how long a record will remain in cache past its TTL. This
value will be used while the new DNS record is fetched in the background.

Stale data will be used from expiry of a record until either the refresh query
completes, or the `dns_stale_ttl` number of seconds have passed.

This configuration enables Kong to be more resilient during resolver downtime.

**Default:** `3600`


### dns_cache_size

Defines the maximum allowed number of DNS records stored in memory cache.

Least recently used DNS records are discarded from cache if it is full. Both
errors and data are cached; therefore, a single name query can easily take up
10-15 slots.

**Default:** `10000`


### dns_not_found_ttl

TTL in seconds for empty DNS responses and "(3) name error" responses.

**Default:** `30`


### dns_error_ttl

TTL in seconds for error responses.

**Default:** `1`


### dns_no_sync

If enabled, then upon a cache-miss every request will trigger its own DNS
query.

When disabled, multiple requests for the same name/type will be synchronized to
a single query.

**Default:** `off`


---

## New DNS Resolver section

This DNS resolver introduces global caching for DNS records across workers,
significantly reducing the query load on DNS servers.

It provides observable statistics, you can retrieve them through the Admin API
`/status/dns`.


### new_dns_client

Enable or disable the new DNS resolver

**Default:** `off`


### resolver_address

Comma-separated list of nameservers, each entry in `ip[:port]` format to be
used by Kong. If not specified, the nameservers in the local `resolv.conf` file
will be used.

Port defaults to 53 if omitted. Accepts both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.

Examples:

```
resolver_address = 8.8.8.8
resolver_address = 8.8.8.8, [::1]
resolver_address = 8.8.8.8:53, [::1]:53
```

**Default:** `<name servers parsed from resolv.conf>`


### resolver_hosts_file

The hosts file to use. This file is read once and its content is static in
memory.

To read the file again after modifying it, Kong must be reloaded.

**Default:** `/etc/hosts`


### resolver_family

The supported query types.

For a domain name, Kong will only query either IP addresses (A or AAAA) or SRV
records, but not both.

It will query SRV records only when the domain matches the
"_<proto>._<service>.<name>" format, for example, "_ldap._tcp.example.com".

For IP addresses (A or AAAA) resolution, it first attempts IPv4 (A) and then
queries IPv6 (AAAA).

**Default:** `A,SRV`


### resolver_valid_ttl

By default, DNS records are cached using the TTL value of a response. This
optional parameter (in seconds) allows overriding it.

**Default:** `<TTL from responses>`


### resolver_error_ttl

TTL in seconds for error responses and empty responses.

**Default:** `1`


### resolver_stale_ttl

Defines, in seconds, how long a record will remain in cache past its TTL. This
value will be used while the new DNS record is fetched in the background.

Stale data will be used from expiry of a record until either the refresh query
completes, or the `resolver_stale_ttl` number of seconds have passed.

This configuration enables Kong to be more resilient during the DNS server
downtime.

**Default:** `3600`


### resolver_lru_cache_size

The DNS client uses a two-layer cache system: L1 - worker-level LRU Lua VM
cache L2 - across-workers shared memory cache

This value specifies the maximum allowed number of DNS responses stored in the
L1 LRU lua VM cache.

A single name query can easily take up 1~10 slots, depending on attempted query
types and extended domains from /etc/resolv.conf options `domain` or `search`.

**Default:** `10000`


### resolver_mem_cache_size

This value specifies the size of the L2 shared memory cache for DNS responses,
`kong_dns_cache`.

Accepted units are `k` and `m`, with a minimum recommended value of a few MBs.

5MB shared memory size could store ~20000 DNS responeses with single A record
or ~10000 DNS responeses with 2~3 A records.

10MB shared memory size could store ~40000 DNS responeses with single A record
or ~20000 DNS responeses with 2~3 A records.

**Default:** `5m`


---

## Vaults section

A secret is any sensitive piece of information required for API gateway
operations. Secrets may be part of the core Kong Gateway configuration, used in
plugins, or part of the configuration associated with APIs serviced by the
gateway.

Some of the most common types of secrets used by Kong Gateway include:

- Data store usernames and passwords, used with PostgreSQL and Redis
- Private X.509 certificates
- API keys

Sensitive plugin configuration fields are generally used for authentication,
hashing, signing, or encryption. Kong Gateway lets you store certain values in a
vault. Here are the vault specific configuration options.


### vault_env_prefix

Defines the environment variable vault's default prefix. For example if you
have all your secrets stored in environment variables prefixed with `SECRETS_`,
it can be configured here so that it isn't necessary to repeat them in Vault
references.

**Default:** none


### vault_aws_region

The AWS region your vault is located in.

**Default:** none


### vault_aws_endpoint_url

The AWS SecretsManager service endpoint url.

If not specified, the value used by vault will be the official AWS
SecretsManager service url which is
`https://secretsmanager.<region>.amazonaws.com` You can specify a complete
URL(including the "http/https" scheme) to override the endpoint that vault will
connect to.

**Default:** none


### vault_aws_assume_role_arn

The target AWS IAM role ARN that will be assumed. Typically this is used for
operating between multiple roles or cross-accounts.

If you are not using assume role you should not specify this value.

**Default:** none


### vault_aws_role_session_name

The role session name used for role assuming. The default value is `KongVault`.

**Default:** `KongVault`


### vault_aws_sts_endpoint_url

The custom STS endpoint URL used for role assuming in AWS Vault.

Note that this value will override the default STS endpoint URL(which should be
`https://sts.amazonaws.com`, or `https://sts.<region>.amazonaws.com` if you have
`AWS_STS_REGIONAL_ENDPOINTS` set to `regional`).

If you are not using private VPC endpoint for STS service, you should not
specify this value.

**Default:** none


### vault_aws_ttl

Time-to-live (in seconds) of a secret from the AWS vault when cached by this
node.

AWS vault misses (no secret) are also cached according to this setting if you
do not configure `vault_aws_neg_ttl`.

If set to 0 (default), such cached secrets or misses never expire.

**Default:** `0`


### vault_aws_neg_ttl

Time-to-live (in seconds) of a AWS vault miss (no secret).

If not specified (default), `vault_aws_ttl` value will be used instead.

If set to 0, misses will never expire.

**Default:** none


### vault_aws_resurrect_ttl

Time (in seconds) for which stale secrets from the AWS vault should be
resurrected for when they cannot be refreshed (e.g., the AWS vault is
unreachable). When this TTL expires, a new attempt to refresh the stale secrets
will be made.

**Default:** none


### vault_gcp_project_id

The project ID from your Google API Console.

**Default:** none


### vault_gcp_ttl

Time-to-live (in seconds) of a secret from the GCP vault when cached by this
node.

GCP vault misses (no secret) are also cached according to this setting if you
do not configure `vault_gcp_neg_ttl`.

If set to 0 (default), such cached secrets or misses never expire.

**Default:** `0`


### vault_gcp_neg_ttl

Time-to-live (in seconds) of a AWS vault miss (no secret).

If not specified (default), `vault_gcp_ttl` value will be used instead.

If set to 0, misses will never expire.

**Default:** none


### vault_gcp_resurrect_ttl

Time (in seconds) for which stale secrets from the GCP vault should be
resurrected for when they cannot be refreshed (e.g., the GCP vault is
unreachable). When this TTL expires, a new attempt to refresh the stale secrets
will be made.

**Default:** none


### vault_hcv_protocol

The protocol to connect with. Accepts one of `http` or `https`.

**Default:** `http`


### vault_hcv_host

The hostname of your HashiCorp vault.

**Default:** `127.0.0.1`


### vault_hcv_port

The port number of your HashiCorp vault.

**Default:** `8200`


### vault_hcv_namespace

Namespace for the HashiCorp Vault. Vault Enterprise requires a namespace to
successfully connect to it.

**Default:** none


### vault_hcv_mount

The mount point.

**Default:** `secret`


### vault_hcv_kv

The secrets engine version. Accepts `v1` or `v2`.

**Default:** `v1`


### vault_hcv_token

A token string.

**Default:** none


### vault_hcv_auth_method

Defines the authentication mechanism when connecting to the Hashicorp Vault
service.

Accepted values are: `token`, `kubernetes` or `approle`.

**Default:** `token`


### vault_hcv_kube_role

Defines the HashiCorp Vault role for the Kubernetes service account of the
running pod. `vault_hcv_auth_method` must be set to `kubernetes` for this to
activate.

**Default:** none


### vault_hcv_kube_auth_path

Place where the Kubernetes auth method will be accessible:
`/v1/auth/<vault_hcv_kube_auth_path>`

**Default:** `kubernetes`


### vault_hcv_kube_api_token_file

Defines where the Kubernetes service account token should be read from the
pod's filesystem, if using a non-standard container platform setup.

**Default:** none


### vault_hcv_approle_auth_path

Place where the Approle auth method will be accessible:
`/v1/auth/<vault_hcv_approle_auth_path>`

**Default:** `approle`


### vault_hcv_approle_role_id

The Role ID of the Approle in HashiCorp Vault.

**Default:** none


### vault_hcv_approle_secret_id

The Secret ID of the Approle in HashiCorp Vault.

**Default:** none


### vault_hcv_approle_secret_id_file

Defines where the Secret ID should be read from the pod's filesystem. This is
usually used with HashiCorp Vault's response wrapping.

**Default:** none


### vault_hcv_approle_response_wrapping

Defines whether the Secret ID read from configuration or file is actually a
response-wrapping token instead of a real Secret ID.

**Default:** `false`


### vault_hcv_ttl

Time-to-live (in seconds) of a secret from the HashiCorp vault when cached by
this node.

HashiCorp vault misses (no secret) are also cached according to this setting if
you do not configure `vault_hcv_neg_ttl`.

If set to 0 (default), such cached secrets or misses never expire.

**Default:** `0`


### vault_hcv_neg_ttl

Time-to-live (in seconds) of a HashiCorp vault miss (no secret).

If not specified (default), `vault_hcv_ttl` value will be used instead.

If set to 0, misses will never expire.

**Default:** none


### vault_hcv_resurrect_ttl

Time (in seconds) for which stale secrets from the HashiCorp vault should be
resurrected for when they cannot be refreshed (e.g., the HashiCorp vault is
unreachable). When this TTL expires, a new attempt to refresh the stale secrets
will be made.

**Default:** none


### vault_azure_vault_uri

The URI the vault is reachable from.

**Default:** none


### vault_azure_client_id

The client ID from your registered Application. Visit your Azure Dashboard and
select *App Registrations* to check your client ID.

**Default:** none


### vault_azure_tenant_id

The DirectoryId and TenantId both equate to the GUID representing the
ActiveDirectory Tenant. Depending on context, either term may be used by
Microsoft documentation and products, which can be confusing. In other words,
the "Tenant ID" IS the "Directory ID"

**Default:** none


### vault_azure_type

Azure Key Vault enables Microsoft Azure applications and users to store and use
several types of secret/key data: keys, secrets, and certificates. Kong
currently only supports the `Secrets`

**Default:** `secrets`


### vault_azure_ttl

Time-to-live (in seconds) of a secret from the Azure Key Vault when cached by
this node.

Key Vault misses (no secret) are also cached according to this setting if you
do not configure `vault_azure_neg_ttl`.

If set to 0 (default), such cached secrets or misses never expire.

**Default:** `0`


### vault_azure_neg_ttl

Time-to-live (in seconds) of a Azure Key Vault miss (no secret).

If not specified (default), `vault_azure_ttl` value will be used instead.

If set to 0, misses will never expire.

**Default:** none


### vault_azure_resurrect_ttl

Time (in seconds) for which stale secrets from the Azure Key Vault should be
resurrected for when they cannot be refreshed (e.g., the the vault is
unreachable). When this TTL expires, a new attempt to refresh the stale secrets
will be made.

**Default:** none


---

## Tuning & Behavior section

### worker_consistency

Defines whether this node should rebuild its state synchronously or
asynchronously (the balancers and the router are rebuilt on updates that affect
them, e.g., updates to routes, services, or upstreams via the admin API or
loading a declarative configuration file). (This option is deprecated and will
be removed in future releases. The new default is `eventual`.)

Accepted values are:

- `strict`: the router will be rebuilt synchronously, causing incoming requests
  to be delayed until the rebuild is finished. (This option is deprecated and
  will be removed in future releases. The new default is `eventual`)
- `eventual`: the router will be rebuilt asynchronously via a recurring
  background job running every second inside of each worker.

Note that `strict` ensures that all workers of a given node will always proxy
requests with an identical router, but increased long-tail latency can be
observed if frequent routes and services updates are expected.

Using `eventual` will help prevent long-tail latency issues in such cases, but
may cause workers to route requests differently for a short period of time after
routes and services updates.

**Default:** `eventual`


### worker_state_update_frequency

Defines how often the worker state changes are checked with a background job.
When a change is detected, a new router or balancer will be built, as needed.
Raising this value will decrease the load on database servers and result in less
jitter in proxy latency, but it might take more time to propagate changes to
each individual worker.

**Default:** `5`


### router_flavor

Selects the router implementation to use when performing request routing.
Incremental router rebuild is available when the flavor is set to either
`expressions` or `traditional_compatible`, which could significantly shorten
rebuild time for a large number of routes.

Accepted values are:

- `traditional_compatible`: the DSL-based expression router engine will be used
  under the hood. However, the router config interface will be the same as
  `traditional`, and expressions are automatically generated at router build
  time. The `expression` field on the `route` object is not visible.
- `expressions`: the DSL-based expression router engine will be used under the
  hood. The traditional router config interface is still visible, and you can
  also write router Expressions manually and provide them in the `expression`
  field on the `route` object.
- `traditional`: the pre-3.0 router engine will be used. The config interface
  will be the same as pre-3.0 Kong, and the `expression` field on the `route`
  object is not visible.

Deprecation warning: In Kong 3.0, `traditional` mode should be avoided and only
be used if `traditional_compatible` does not work as expected.

This flavor of the router will be removed in the next major release of Kong.

**Default:** `traditional_compatible`


### lua_max_req_headers

Maximum number of request headers to parse by default.

This argument can be set to an integer between 1 and 1000.

When proxying, Kong sends all the request headers, and this setting does not
have any effect. It is used to limit Kong and its plugins from reading too many
request headers.

**Default:** `100`


### lua_max_resp_headers

Maximum number of response headers to parse by default.

This argument can be set to an integer between 1 and 1000.

When proxying, Kong returns all the response headers, and this setting does not
have any effect. It is used to limit Kong and its plugins from reading too many
response headers.

**Default:** `100`


### lua_max_uri_args

Maximum number of request URI arguments to parse by default.

This argument can be set to an integer between 1 and 1000.

When proxying, Kong sends all the request query arguments, and this setting
does not have any effect.

It is used to limit Kong and its plugins from reading too many query arguments.

**Default:** `100`


### lua_max_post_args

Maximum number of request post arguments to parse by default.

This argument can be set to an integer between 1 and 1000.

When proxying, Kong sends all the request post arguments, and this setting does
not have any effect.

It is used to limit Kong and its plugins from reading too many post arguments.

**Default:** `100`


---

## Miscellaneous section

Additional settings inherited from lua-nginx-module allowing for more
flexibility and advanced usage.

See the lua-nginx-module documentation for more information:
https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module


### lua_ssl_trusted_certificate

Comma-separated list of certificate authorities for Lua cosockets in PEM
format.

The special value `system` attempts to search for the "usual default" provided
by each distro, according to an arbitrary heuristic. In the current
implementation, the following pathnames will be tested in order, and the first
one found will be used:

- `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` (Debian/Ubuntu/Gentoo)
- `/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt` (Fedora/RHEL 6)
- `/etc/ssl/ca-bundle.pem` (OpenSUSE)
- `/etc/pki/tls/cacert.pem` (OpenELEC)
- `/etc/pki/ca-trust/extracted/pem/tls-ca-bundle.pem` (CentOS/RHEL 7)
- `/etc/ssl/cert.pem` (OpenBSD, Alpine)

`system` can be used by itself or in conjunction with other CA file paths.

When `pg_ssl_verify` is enabled, these certificate authority files will be used
for verifying Kong's database connections.

Certificates can be configured on this property with any of the following
values:

- `system`
- absolute path to the certificate
- certificate content
- base64 encoded certificate content

See https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module#lua_ssl_trusted_certificate

**Default:** `system`


### lua_ssl_verify_depth

Sets the verification depth in the server certificates chain used by Lua
cosockets, set by `lua_ssl_trusted_certificate`.

This includes the certificates configured for Kong's database connections.

If the maximum depth is reached before reaching the end of the chain,
verification will fail. This helps mitigate certificate based DoS attacks.

See https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module#lua_ssl_verify_depth

**Default:** `1`


### lua_ssl_protocols

Defines the TLS versions supported when handshaking with OpenResty's TCP
cosocket APIs.

This affects connections made by Lua code, such as connections to the database
Kong uses, or when sending logs using a logging plugin. It does *not* affect
connections made to the upstream Service or from downstream clients.

**Default:** `TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3`


### lua_package_path

Sets the Lua module search path (LUA_PATH). Useful when developing or using
custom plugins not stored in the default search path.

See https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module#lua_package_path

**Default:** `./?.lua;./?/init.lua;`


### lua_package_cpath

Sets the Lua C module search path (LUA_CPATH).

See https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module#lua_package_cpath

**Default:** none


### lua_socket_pool_size

Specifies the size limit for every cosocket connection pool associated with
every remote server.

See https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module#lua_socket_pool_size

**Default:** `256`


### enforce_rbac

Specifies whether Admin API RBAC is enforced.

Accepts one of `entity`, `both`, `on`, or `off`.

- `on`: only endpoint-level authorization is enforced.
- `entity`: entity-level authorization applies.
- `both`: enables both endpoint and entity-level authorization.
- `off`: disables both endpoint and entity-level authorization.

When enabled, Kong will deny requests to the Admin API when a nonexistent or
invalid RBAC authorization token is passed, or the RBAC user with which the
token is associated does not have permissions to access/modify the requested
resource.

**Default:** `off`


### rbac_auth_header

Defines the name of the HTTP request header from which the Admin API will
attempt to authenticate the RBAC user.

**Default:** `Kong-Admin-Token`


### event_hooks_enabled

When enabled, event hook entities represent a relationship between an event
(source and event) and an action (handler). Similar to web hooks, event hooks
can be used to communicate Kong Gateway service events. When a particular event
happens on a service, the event hook calls a URL with information about that
event. Event hook configurations differ depending on the handler. The events
that are triggered send associated data.

See:
https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/api/admin-ee/latest/#/Event-hooks/get-event-hooks

**Default:** `on`


### fips

Turn on FIPS mode; this mode is only available on a FIPS build.

**Default:** `off`


---

## Kong Manager section

The Admin GUI for Kong Enterprise.


### admin_gui_listen

Kong Manager Listeners

Comma-separated list of addresses and ports on which Kong will expose Kong
Manager. This web application lets you configure and manage Kong, and therefore
should be kept secured.

Suffixes can be specified for each pair, similarly to the `admin_listen`
directive.

**Default:** `0.0.0.0:8002, 0.0.0.0:8445 ssl`


### admin_gui_url

Kong Manager URL

Comma-separated list of addresses (the lookup or balancer) for Kong Manager.

Accepted format (items in square brackets are optional):

`<scheme>://<IP / HOSTNAME>[:<PORT>][<PATH>][, <scheme>://<IP /
HOSTNAME>[:<PORT>][<PATH>]]`

Examples:

- `http://127.0.0.1:8003`
- `https://kong-admin.test`
- `http://dev-machine`
- `http://127.0.0.1:8003, https://exmple.com/manager`

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_path

Kong Manager base path

This configuration parameter allows the user to customize the path prefix where
Kong Manager is served. When updating this parameter, it's recommended to update
the path in `admin_gui_url` as well.

Accepted format:

- Path must start with a `/`
- Path must not end with a `/` (except for the `/`)
- Path can only contain letters, digits, hyphens (`-`),

underscores (`_`), and slashes (`/`)

- Path must not contain continuous slashes (e.g., `//` and `///`)

Examples:

- `/`
- `/manager`
- `/kong-manager`
- `/kong/manager`

**Default:** `/`


### admin_gui_api_url

Hierarchical part of a URI which is composed optionally of a host, port, and
path at which the Admin API accepts HTTP or HTTPS traffic. When this config is
disabled, Kong Manager will use the window protocol + host and append the
resolved admin_listen HTTP/HTTPS port.

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_csp_header

Enable or disable the `Content-Security-Policy` (CSP) header for Kong Manager

This configuration controls the presence of the CSP header when serving Kong
Manager. The default CSP header value will be used unless customized.

To modify the value of the served CSP header, refer to the
`admin_gui_csp_header_value` configuration.

Set this configuration to `on` to enable the CSP header.

**Default:** `off`


### admin_gui_csp_header_value

The value of the `Content-Security-Policy` (CSP) header for Kong Manager.

This configuration controls the value of the CSP header when serving Kong
Manager. If omitted or left empty, the default CSP header value will be used.

This is an advanced configuration intended for cases where the default CSP
header value does not meet your requirements. Use with caution.

For more information on the CSP header, see:
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_ssl_protocols

Defines the TLS versions supported for Kong Manager

**Default:** `TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3`


### admin_gui_ssl_cert

The SSL certificate for `admin_gui_listen` values with SSL enabled.

values:

- absolute path to the certificate
- certificate content
- base64 encoded certificate content

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_ssl_cert_key

The SSL key for `admin_gui_listen` values with SSL enabled.

values:

- absolute path to the certificate key
- certificate key content
- base64 encoded certificate key content

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_flags

Alters the layout Admin GUI (JSON) to enable Kong Immunity in the Admin GUI.

**Default:** `{}`


### admin_gui_access_log

Kong Manager Access Logs

Here you can set an absolute or relative path for Kong Manager access logs.
When the path is relative, logs are placed in the `prefix` location.

Setting this value to `off` disables access logs for Kong Manager.

**Default:** `logs/admin_gui_access.log`


### admin_gui_error_log

Kong Manager Error Logs

Here you can set an absolute or relative path for Kong Manager access logs.
When the path is relative, logs are placed in the `prefix` location.

Setting this value to `off` disables error logs for Kong Manager.

Granularity can be adjusted through the `log_level` directive.

**Default:** `logs/admin_gui_error.log`


### admin_gui_auth

Kong Manager Authentication Plugin Name

Secures access to Kong Manager by specifying an authentication plugin to use.

Supported Plugins:

- `basic-auth`: Basic Authentication plugin
- `ldap-auth-advanced`: LDAP Authentication plugin
- `openid-connect`: OpenID Connect Authentication plugin

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_auth_conf

Kong Manager Authentication Plugin Config (JSON)

Specifies the configuration for the authentication plugin specified in
`admin_gui_auth`.

For information about Plugin Configuration consult the associated plugin
documentation.

Example for `basic-auth`:

`admin_gui_auth_conf = { "hide_credentials": true }`

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_auth_password_complexity

Kong Manager Authentication Password Complexity (JSON)

When `admin_gui_auth = basic-auth`, this property defines the rules required
for Kong Manager passwords. Choose from preset rules or write your own.

Example using preset rules:

`admin_gui_auth_password_complexity = { "kong-preset": "min_8" }`

All values for kong-preset require the password to contain characters from at
least three of the following categories:

1. Uppercase characters (A through Z)

2. Lowercase characters (a through z)

3. Base-10 digits (0 through 9)

4. Special characters (for example, &, $, #, %)

Supported preset rules:

- `min_8`: minimum length of 8
- `min_12`: minimum length of 12
- `min_20`: minimum length of 20

To write your own rules, see
https://manpages.debian.org/jessie/passwdqc/passwdqc.conf.5.en.html.

NOTE: Only keywords "min", "max" and "passphrase" are supported.

Example:

`admin_gui_auth_password_complexity = { "min": "disabled,24,11,9,8" }`

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_session_conf

Kong Manager Session Config (JSON)

Specifies the configuration for the Session plugin as used by Kong Manager.

For information about plugin configuration, consult the Kong Session plugin
documentation.

Example:

```
admin_gui_session_conf = { "cookie_name": "kookie", \
                            "secret": "changeme" }
```

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_auth_header

Defines the name of the HTTP request header from which the Admin API will
attempt to identify the Kong Admin user.

**Default:** `Kong-Admin-User`


### admin_gui_auth_login_attempts

Number of times a user can attempt to login to Kong Manager. 0 means infinite
attempts allowed.

**Default:** `0`


### admin_gui_auth_login_attempts_ttl

Length, in seconds, of the TTL for changing login attempts records. Records in
the database older than their TTL are automatically purged.

This argument can be set to an integer between 0 and 100000000.

Example, 7 days: `7 * 24 * 60 * 60 = 604800.`

**Default:** `604800`


### admin_gui_auth_change_password_attempts

Number of times a user can attempt to change password.

0 means infinite attempts allowed.

**Default:** `0`


### admin_gui_auth_change_password_ttl

Length, in seconds, of the TTL for changing password attempts records. Records
in the database older than their TTL are automatically purged.

Example, 1 days: `1 * 24 * 60 * 60 = 86400.`

**Default:** `86400`


### admin_gui_header_txt

Sets the text for the Kong Manager header banner.

Header banner is not shown if this config is empty.

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_header_bg_color

Sets the background color for the Kong Manager header banner.

Accepts CSS color keyword, #-hexadecimal, or RGB format. Invalid values are
ignored by Manager.

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_header_txt_color

Sets the text color for the Kong Manager header banner.

Accepts CSS color keyword, #-hexadecimal, or RGB format. Invalid values are
ignored by Kong Manager.

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_footer_txt

Sets the text for the Kong Manager footer banner. Footer banner is not shown if
this config is empty.

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_footer_bg_color

Sets the background color for the Kong Manager footer banner.

Accepts CSS color keyword, #-hexadecimal, or RGB format. Invalid values are
ignored by manager.

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_footer_txt_color

Sets the text color for the Kong Manager footer banner.

Accepts CSS color keyword, #-hexadecimal, or RGB format. Invalid values are
ignored by Kong Manager.

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_login_banner_title

Sets the title text for the Kong Manager login banner.

Login banner is not shown if both `admin_gui_login_banner_title` and
`admin_gui_login_banner_body` are empty.

**Default:** none


### admin_gui_login_banner_body

Sets the body text for the Kong Manager login banner.

Login banner is not shown if both `admin_gui_login_banner_title` and
`admin_gui_login_banner_body` are empty.

**Default:** none


---

## Konnect section

### konnect_mode

When enabled, the dataplane is connected to Konnect

**Default:** `off`


---

## Analytics For Konnect section

### analytics_flush_interval

Specify the maximum frequency, in seconds, at which local analytics and
licensing data are flushed to the database or Konnect, depending on the
installation mode.

Kong also triggers a flush when the number of messages in the buffer is less
than `analytics_buffer_size_limit`, regardless of whether the specified time
interval has elapsed.

**Default:** `1`


### analytics_buffer_size_limit

Max number of messages can be buffered locally before dropping data in case
there is no network connection to Konnect.

**Default:** `100000`


### analytics_debug

Outputs analytics payload to Kong logs.

**Default:** `off`


---

## Admin Smtp Configuration section

### admin_emails_from

The email address for the `From` header for admin emails.

**Default:** `""`


### admin_emails_reply_to

Email address for the `Reply-To` header for admin emails.

**Default:** none


### admin_invitation_expiry

Expiration time for the admin invitation link (in seconds). 0 means no
expiration.

Example, 72 hours: `72 * 60 * 60 = 259200`

**Default:** `259200`


---

## General Smtp Configuration section

### smtp_mock

This flag will mock the sending of emails. This can be used for testing before
the SMTP client is fully configured.

**Default:** `on`


### smtp_host

The hostname of the SMTP server to connect to.

**Default:** `localhost`


### smtp_port

The port number on the SMTP server to connect to.

**Default:** `25`


### smtp_starttls

When set to `on`, STARTTLS is used to encrypt communication with the SMTP
server. This is normally used in conjunction with port 587.

**Default:** `off`


### smtp_username

Username used for authentication with SMTP server

**Default:** none


### smtp_password

Password used for authentication with SMTP server

**Default:** none


### smtp_ssl

When set to `on`, SMTPS is used to encrypt communication with the SMTP server.
This is normally used in conjunction with port 465.

**Default:** `off`


### smtp_auth_type

The method used to authenticate with the SMTP server Valid options are `plain`,
`login`, or `nil`

**Default:** none


### smtp_domain

The domain used in the `EHLO` connection and part of the `Message-ID` header

**Default:** `localhost.localdomain`


### smtp_timeout_connect

The timeout (in milliseconds) for connecting to the SMTP server.

**Default:** `60000`


### smtp_timeout_send

The timeout (in milliseconds) for sending data to the SMTP server.

**Default:** `60000`


### smtp_timeout_read

The timeout (in milliseconds) for reading data from the SMTP server.

**Default:** `60000`


### smtp_admin_emails

Comma separated list of admin emails to receive notifications.

Example `admin1@example.com, admin2@example.com`

**Default:** none


---

## Data & Admin Audit section

When enabled, Kong will store detailed audit data regarding Admin API and
database access. In most cases, updates to the database are associated with
Admin API requests. As such, database object audit log data is tied to a given
HTTP request via a unique identifier, providing built-in association of Admin
API and database traffic.


### audit_log

When enabled, Kong will log information about Admin API access and database row
insertions, updates, and deletions.

**Default:** `off`


### audit_log_ignore_methods

Comma-separated list of HTTP methods that will not generate audit log entries.
By default, all HTTP requests will be logged.

**Default:** none


### audit_log_ignore_paths

Comma-separated list of request paths that will not generate audit log entries.
By default, all HTTP requests will be logged.

**Default:** none


### audit_log_ignore_tables

Comma-separated list of database tables that will not generate audit log
entries. By default, updates to all database tables will be logged (the term
"updates" refers to the creation, update, or deletion of a row).

**Default:** none


### audit_log_payload_exclude

Comma-separated list of keys that will be filtered out of the payload. Keys
that were filtered will be recorded in the audit log.

**Default:** `token, secret, password`


### audit_log_record_ttl

Length, in seconds, of the TTL for audit log records. Records in the database
older than their TTL are automatically purged.

Example, 30 days: `30 * 24 * 60 * 60 = 2592000`

**Default:** `2592000`


### audit_log_signing_key

Defines the path to a private RSA signing key that can be used to insert a
signature of audit records, adjacent to the record. The corresponding public key
should be stored offline, and can be used to validate audit entries in the
future. If this value is undefined, no signature will be generated.

**Default:** none


---

## Route Collision Detection/Prevention section

### route_validation_strategy

The strategy used to validate routes when creating or updating them.

Different strategies are available to tune how to enforce splitting traffic of
workspaces.

- `smart` is the default option and uses the algorithm described in
  https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/kong-enterprise/workspaces/.
- `off` disables any check.
- `path` enforces routes to comply with the pattern described in config
  `enforce_route_path_pattern`.
- `static` relies on the PostgreSQL database.

Before creating a new route, it checks if the route is unique across all
workspaces based on the following params: `paths`, `methods`, and `hosts`. If
all fields of the new route overlap with an existing one, a 409 is returned with
the route of the collision. The array order is not important for the overlap
filter.

**Default:** `smart`


### enforce_route_path_pattern

Specifies the Lua pattern which will be enforced on the `paths` attribute of a
route object. You can also add a placeholder for the workspace in the pattern,
which will be rendered during runtime based on the workspace to which the
`route` belongs.

This setting is only relevant if `route_validation_strategy` is set to `path`.

**Note:** The collision detection is only supported for plain text routes, do
not rely on this feature to validate regex routes.

Example For Pattern `/$(workspace)/v%d/.*` valid paths are:

1. `/group1/v1/` if route belongs to workspace `group1`.

2. `/group2/v1/some_path` if route belongs to workspace `group2`.

**Default:** none


---

## Database Encryption & Keyring Management section

When enabled, Kong will transparently encrypt sensitive fields, such as
consumer credentials, TLS private keys, and RBAC user tokens, among others. A
full list of encrypted fields is available from the Kong Enterprise
documentation site.

Encrypted data is transparently decrypted before being displayed to the Admin
API or made available to plugins or core routing logic.

While this feature is GA, do note that we currently do not provide normal
semantic versioning compatibility guarantees on the keyring feature's APIs in
that Kong may make a breaking change to the feature in a minor version. Also
note that mismanagement of keyring data may result in irrecoverable data loss.


### keyring_enabled

When enabled, Kong will encrypt sensitive field values before writing them to
the database, and subsequently decrypt them when retrieving data for the Admin
API, Developer Portal, or proxy business logic. Symmetric encryption keys are
managed based on the strategy defined below.

**Default:** `off`


### keyring_strategy

Defines the strategy implementation by which Kong nodes will manage symmetric
encryption keys. Please see the Kong Enterprise documentation for a detailed
description of each strategy. Acceptable values for this option are `cluster`
and `vault`.

**Default:** `cluster`


### keyring_public_key

Defines the public key of an RSA keypair.

This keypair is used for symmetric keyring import/export, e.g., for disaster
recovery and optional bootstrapping.

Values:

- absolute path to the public key
- public key content
- base64 encoded public key content

**Default:** none


### keyring_private_key

Defines the private key of an RSA keypair.

This keypair is used for symmetric keyring import/export, e.g., for disaster
recovery and optional bootstrapping.

Values:

- absolute path to the private key
- private key content
- base64 encoded private key content

**Default:** none


### keyring_recovery_public_key

Defines the public key to optionally encrypt all keyring materials and back
them up in the database.

Values:

- absolute path to the public key
- public key content
- base64 encoded public key content

**Default:** none


### keyring_blob_path

Defines the filesystem path at which Kong will back up the initial keyring
material.

This option is useful largely for development purposes.

**Default:** none


### keyring_vault_host

Defines the Vault host at which Kong will fetch the encryption material. This
value should be defined in the format:

`<scheme>://<IP / HOSTNAME>:<PORT>`

**Default:** none


### keyring_vault_mount

Defines the name of the Vault v2 KV secrets engine at which symmetric keys are
found.

**Default:** none


### keyring_vault_path

Defines the name of the Vault v2 KV path at which symmetric keys are found.

**Default:** none


### keyring_vault_auth_method

Defines the authentication mechanism when connecting to the Hashicorp Vault
service.

Accepted values are: `token`, or `kubernetes`:

- `token`: Uses the static token defined in the `keyring_vault_token`
  configuration property.

- `kubernetes`: Uses the Kubernetes authentication mechanism, with the running
  pod's mapped service account, to assume the Hashicorp Vault role name that is
  defined in the `keyring_vault_kube_role` configuration property.

**Default:** `token`


### keyring_vault_token

Defines the token value used to communicate with the v2 KV Vault HTTP(S) API.

**Default:** none


### keyring_vault_kube_role

Defines the Hashicorp Vault role that will be assumed using the Kubernetes
service account of the running pod.

`keyring_vault_auth_method` must be set to `kubernetes` for this to activate.

**Default:** `default`


### keyring_vault_kube_api_token_file

Defines where the Kubernetes service account token should be read from the
pod's filesystem, if using a non-standard container platform setup.

**Default:** `/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token`


### keyring_encrypt_license

Enables keyring encryption for license payloads stored in the database.

**Warning:** For Kong deployments that rely entirely on the database for
license provisioning (i.e. not using `KONG_LICENSE_DATA` or
`KONG_LICENSE_PATH`), enabling this option will delay license activation until
after the node's keyring has been activated.

**Default:** `off`


### untrusted_lua

Controls loading of Lua functions from admin-supplied sources such as the Admin
API. LuaJIT bytecode loading is always disabled.

**Warning:** LuaJIT is not designed as a secure runtime for running malicious
code, therefore you should properly protect your Admin API endpoint even with
sandboxing enabled. The sandbox only provides protection against trivial
attackers or unintentional modification of the Kong global environment.

Accepted values are: `off`, `sandbox`, or `on`:

- `off`: Disallow loading of any arbitrary Lua functions. The `off` option
  disables any functionality that runs arbitrary Lua code, including the
  Serverless Functions plugins and any transformation plugin that allows custom
  Lua functions.

- `sandbox`: Allow loading of Lua functions, but use a sandbox when executing
  them. The sandboxed function has restricted access to the global environment
  and only has access to Kong PDK, OpenResty, and standard Lua functions that
  will generally not cause harm to the Kong Gateway node.

- `on`: Functions have unrestricted access to the global environment and can
  load any Lua modules. This is similar to the behavior in Kong Gateway prior to
  2.3.0.

The default `sandbox` environment does not allow importing other modules or
libraries, or executing anything at the OS level (for example, file read/write).
The global environment is also not accessible.

Examples of `untrusted_lua = sandbox` behavior:

- You can't access or change global values such as
  `kong.configuration.pg_password`
- You can run harmless Lua: `local foo = 1 + 1`. However, OS level functions
  are not allowed, like: `os.execute(`rm -rf /*`)`.

To customize the sandbox environment, use the `untrusted_lua_sandbox_requires`
and `untrusted_lua_sandbox_environment` parameters below.

**Default:** `sandbox`


### untrusted_lua_sandbox_requires

Comma-separated list of modules allowed to be loaded with `require` inside the
sandboxed environment. Ignored if `untrusted_lua` is not `sandbox`.

For example, say you have configured the Serverless pre-function plugin and it
contains the following `requires`:

```
local template = require "resty.template"
local split = require "kong.tools.string".split
```

To run the plugin, add the modules to the allowed list:

```
untrusted_lua_sandbox_requires = resty.template, kong.tools.utils
```

**Warning:** Allowing certain modules may create opportunities to escape the
sandbox. For example, allowing `os` or `luaposix` may be unsafe.

**Default:** none


### untrusted_lua_sandbox_environment

Comma-separated list of global Lua variables that should be made available
inside the sandboxed environment. Ignored if `untrusted_lua` is not `sandbox`.

**Warning**: Certain variables, when made available, may create opportunities
to escape the sandbox.

**Default:** none


### openresty_path

Path to the OpenResty installation that Kong will use. When this is empty (the
default), Kong determines the OpenResty installation by searching for a
system-installed OpenResty and falling back to searching $PATH for the nginx
binary.

Setting this attribute disables the search behavior and explicitly instructs
Kong which OpenResty installation to use.

**Default:** none


### node_id

Node ID for the Kong node. Every Kong node in a Kong cluster must have a unique
and valid UUID. When empty, node ID is automatically generated.

**Default:** none


---

## Cluster Fallback Configuration section

### cluster_fallback_config_import

Enable fallback configuration imports.

This should only be enabled for data planes.

**Default:** `off`


### cluster_fallback_config_storage

Storage definition used by `cluster_fallback_config_import` and
`cluster_fallback_config_export`.

Supported storage types:

- S3-like storages
- GCP storage service

To use S3 with a bucket named b and place all configs to with a key prefix
named p, set it to: `s3://b/p` To use GCP for the same bucket and prefix, set it
to: `gcs://b/p`

The credentials (and the endpoint URL for S3-like) for S3 are passed with
environment variables: `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, and
`AWS_CONFIG_STORAGE_ENDPOINT` (extension), where `AWS_CONFIG_STORAGE_ENDPOINT`
is the endpoint that hosts S3-like storage.

The credentials for GCP are provided via the environment variable
`GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT`.

**Default:** none


### cluster_fallback_export_s3_config

Fallback config export S3 configuration.

This is used only when `cluster_fallback_config_storage` is an S3-like schema.

If set, it will add the config table to the Kong exporter config S3 putObject
request.

The config table should be in JSON format and can be unserialized into a table.

It should contain the necessary parameters as described in the documentation:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSJavaScriptSDK/latest/AWS/S3.html#putObject-property.

For example, if you want to set the ServerSideEncryption headers/KMS Key ID for
the S3 putObject request, you can set the config table to:
`{"ServerSideEncryption": "aws:kms", "SSEKMSKeyId": "your-kms-key-id"}`

**Default:** none


### cluster_fallback_config_export

Enable fallback configuration exports.

**Default:** `off`


### cluster_fallback_config_export_delay

The fallback configuration export interval.

If the interval is set to 60 and configuration A is exported and there are new
configurations B, C, and D in the next 60 seconds, it will wait until 60 seconds
passed and export D, skipping B and C.

**Default:** `60`


---

## Webassembly (Wasm) section

### wasm

Enable/disable wasm support. This must be enabled in order to use wasm filters
and filter chains.

**Default:** `off`


### wasm_filters_path

Path to the directory containing wasm filter modules.

At startup, Kong discovers available wasm filters by scanning this directory
for files with the `.wasm` file extension.

The name of a wasm filter module is derived from the filename itself, with the
.wasm extension removed. So, given the following tree:

```
/path/to/wasm_filters
├── my_module.wasm
├── my_other_module.wasm
└── not_a_wasm_module.txt
```

The resulting filter modules available for use in Kong will be:

- `my_module`
- `my_other_module`

Notes:

- No recursion is performed. Only .wasm files at the top level are registered.
- This path _may_ be a symlink to a directory.

**Default:** none


### wasm_filters

Comma-separated list of Wasm filters to be made available for use in filter
chains.

When the `off` keyword is specified as the only value, no filters will be
available for use.

When the `bundled` keyword is specified, all filters bundled with Kong will be
available.

When the `user` keyword is specified, all filters within the
`wasm_filters_path` will be available.

**Examples:**

- `wasm_filters = bundled,user` enables _all_ bundled and user-supplied filters
- `wasm_filters = user` enables _only_ user-supplied filters
- `wasm_filters = filter-a,filter-b` enables _only_ filters named `filter-a` or
  `filter-b` (whether bundled _or_ user-supplied)

If a conflict occurs where a bundled filter and a user-supplied filter share
the same name, a warning will be logged, and the user-supplied filter will be
used instead.

**Default:** `bundled,user`


---

## Wasm Injected Directives section

The Nginx Wasm module (i.e., ngx_wasm_module) has its own settings, which can
be tuned via `wasm_*` directives in the Nginx configuration file. Kong supports
configuration of these directives via its Nginx directive injection mechanism.

The following namespaces are supported:

- `nginx_wasm_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` into the `wasm {}` block.
- `nginx_wasm_shm_kv`: Injects `shm_kv *` into the `wasm {}` block, allowing
  operators to define a general memory zone which is usable by the
  `get_shared_data`/`set_shared_data` Proxy-Wasm SDK functions as an in-memory
  key-value store of data shareable across filters.
- `nginx_wasm_shm_kv_<name>`: Injects `shm_kv <name>` into the `wasm {}` block,
  allowing operators to define custom shared memory zones which are usable by
  the `get_shared_data`/`set_shared_data` Proxy-Wasm SDK functions as separate
  namespaces in the `"<name>/<key>"` format. For using these functions with
  non-namespaced keys, the Nginx template needs a `shm_kv *` entry, which can be
  defined using `nginx_wasm_shm_kv`.
- `nginx_wasm_wasmtime_<flag>`: Injects `flag <flag>` into the `wasmtime {}`
  block, allowing various Wasmtime-specific flags to be set.
- `nginx_<http|proxy>_<directive>`: Injects `<directive>` into the `http {}` or
  `server {}` blocks, as specified in the Nginx injected directives section.

The documentation for all supported directives can be found in the Nginx Wasm
module repository:

https://github.com/Kong/ngx_wasm_module/blob/main/docs/DIRECTIVES.md

The Wasmtime flag documentation can be found here:

https://docs.wasmtime.dev/c-api/config_8h.html

There are several noteworthy ngx_wasm_module behaviors which can be tuned via
`http {}`/`server {}` level directive injection (identical behavior in either
level), for example:

- `nginx_http_proxy_wasm_socket_<connect|read|send>_timeout`: sets
  connection/read/send timeouts for Wasm dispatches.
- `nginx_http_proxy_wasm_socket_buffer_size`: sets a buffer size for reading
  Wasm dispatch responses.

The values for these settings are inherited from their `nginx_*_lua_*`
counterparts if they have not been explicitly set. For instance, if you set
`nginx_http_lua_socket_connect_timeout`, the value of this setting will be
propagated to `nginx_http_wasm_socket_connect_timeout` unless you _also_ set
`nginx_http_wasm_socket_connect_timeout`.

Some TLS-related settings receive special treatment as well:

- `lua_ssl_trusted_certificate`: when set, the value is propagated to the
  `nginx_wasm_tls_trusted_certificate` directive.
- `lua_ssl_verify_depth`: when set (to a value greater than zero), several
  TLS-related `nginx_wasm_*` settings are enabled: -
  `nginx_wasm_tls_verify_cert` - `nginx_wasm_tls_verify_host` -
  `nginx_wasm_tls_no_verify_warn`

Like other `kong.conf` fields, all injected Nginx directives documented here
can be set via environment variable. For instance, setting:

`KONG_NGINX_WASM_TLS_VERIFY_CERT=<value>`

Will inject the following into the `wasm {}` block:

`tls_verify_cert <value>;`

There are several Nginx directives supported by ngx_wasm_module which should
not be used because they are irrelevant to or unsupported by Kong, or they may
conflict with Kong's own management of Proxy-Wasm. Use of these directives may
result in unintentional breakage:

- `wasm_call`
- `module`
- `proxy_wasm`
- `resolver_add`
- `proxy_wasm_request_headers_in_access`
- `shm_queue`

---

## Request Debugging section

Request debugging is a mechanism that allows admins to collect the timing of
proxy path requests in the response header (X-Kong-Request-Debug-Output) and
optionally, the error log.

This feature provides insights into the time spent within various components of
Kong, such as plugins, DNS resolution, load balancing, and more. It also
provides contextual information such as domain names tried during these
processes.


### request_debug

When enabled, Kong will provide detailed timing information for its components
to the client and the error log if the following headers are present in the
proxy request:

- `X-Kong-Request-Debug`: If the value is set to `*`, timing information will
  be collected and exported for the current request. If this header is not
  present or contains an unknown value, timing information will not be collected
  for the current request. You can also specify a list of filters, separated by
  commas, to filter the scope of the time information that is collected.

The following filters are supported for `X-Kong-Request-Debug`:

- `rewrite`: Collect timing information from the `rewrite` phase.
- `access`: Collect timing information from the `access` phase.
- `balancer`: Collect timing information from the `balancer` phase.
- `response`: Collect timing information from the `response` phase.
- `header_filter`: Collect timing information from the `header_filter` phase.
- `body_filter`: Collect timing information from the `body_filter` phase.
- `log`: Collect timing information from the `log` phase.
- `upstream`: Collect timing information from the `upstream` phase.

- `X-Kong-Request-Debug-Log`: If set to `true`, timing information will also be
  logged in the Kong error log with a log level of `notice`. Defaults to
  `false`.

- `X-Kong-Request-Debug-Token`: Token for authenticating the client making the
  debug request to prevent abuse. 

    **Note: Debug requests originating from
    loopback addresses do not require this header. Deploying Kong behind other
    proxies may result in exposing the debug interface to the public.**

**Default:** `on`


### request_debug_token

The Request Debug Token is used in the `X-Kong-Request-Debug-Token` header to
prevent abuse.

If this value is not set (the default), a random token will be generated when
Kong starts, restarts, or reloads. If a token is specified manually, then the
provided token will be used.

You can locate the generated debug token in two locations:

- Kong error log: Debug token will be logged in the error log (notice level)
  when Kong starts, restarts, or reloads. The log line will have the:
  `[request-debug]` prefix to aid searching.
- Filesystem: Debug token will also be stored in a file located at
  `{prefix}/.request_debug_token` and updated when Kong starts, restarts, or
  reloads. identity_service = # Overrides the default identity service URL for
  external consumers.

**Default:** `<random>`


[Penlight]: http://stevedonovan.github.io/Penlight/api/index.html
[pl.template]: http://stevedonovan.github.io/Penlight/api/libraries/pl.template.html
[templates]: https://github.com/kong/kong/tree/master/kong/templates
